Now, in all this province of Maabar, there is not a tailor, for the people go naked at every season. The air is always so temperate, that they wear only a piece of cloth round the middle. ‘The king is dressed just like the others, except that his cloth is finer,t and he wears a necklace full set with rubies, sapphires, emeralds, and other precious stones, worth a great treasure. He has also suspended from his neck a silken cord, reaching a pace down, and containing 104 of the largest pearls and most valuable rubies. It is worn because he repeats every day, morning and evening, 104 prayers in honour of his idols. To this he is bound by his faith and religion, by the example and injunction of his ancestors.He wears also round three parts both of his arms and legs, bracelets of gold, full of goodly stones and pearls. In short, the number of his jewels is surprising, being of more value than a handsome city, and no wonder, since they are all produced in his own dominions. No man is allowed to export either a pearl or stone of great value, but must produce it to him, and as he gives double its cost, they do so very willingly, whence he has collected so ample a store. Now I must tell you of other marvellous things: he has 500 wives ; and as soon as he sees a beautiful lady, takes and keeps her for himself.He did the same in the case of a very handsome wife of his brother, who, being a prudent man, submitted, and did not quarrel on that account.The king has certain faithful adherents, who attend him on horseback wherever he goes, and hold great commands under him ; nay, what is wonderful, they serve him both in this and in the other world. ‘Whenever he dies, and his body is thrown into a great fire, these vassals throw themselves after him, that they may accompany and serve him still in the future state.It is the national custom that, when the king dies, and leaves a great treasure, his son will not spend it for the world; saying, I have all my father’s kingdom and people, why should I not support myself as he did. Thus the treasure collected in this kingdom becomes immense.  In this country no horses are reared, and hence the greater part of the revenue is employed in obtaining them from foreign regions. The merchants of Curmos, of Quisci, of Dufar, of Soer, and of Aden, whose provinces contain many steeds of fine quality, purchase, embark, and bring them to the king and his four princely brothers, selling them for 500 sagi of gold, worth more than 100 mares of silver. I assure you, this monarch buys annually more than 2000, but, by the end of the year, they are all dead, from wanting the medicine necessary to keep them in health. The merchants who import them wish this to happen, and are therefore careful not to introduce the cure.Another custom is, that when a man has committed a crime, and is condemned to die, he expresses a wish to devote himself in honour of a certain divinity, to which the king consents. Then his relations and friends place him on a wagon, giving him twelve knives, and lead him through the city, calling out, “ This brave man is about to kill himself for the love of the great idol.” When they come to the place of execution, he takes a knife and cries aloud, “ I kill myself for the love of such a deity.” He then, with different knives, strikes himself in one arm, then in the other, next in the stomach, and so on till he expires, when the relations burn his body with great joy.I must tell you another custom of this country, that when a man is dead, and his body burned, his wife throws herself into the fire with her lord ; she is then much praised by the people, and many ladies follow the example.The men also of this kingdom adore idols, and many worship the ox, saying, he is a valuable animal, and on no account would they kill him, or eat his flesh. Yet there is a race named gaui who eat it, butas they dare not slay the animal, they use only those that die a natural or accidental death. All the people, too, anoint their houses with its dung. It is the custom also that the king, barons, and other persons sit upon the ground, and when asked why they decline a more honourable seat, they say, “ We came from earth, and must return to it, and cannot too much honour this common mother.” These gaui who eat beef are the persons by whose ancestors St Thomas the apostle was killed; hence none of this lineage can enter the place where he lies buried, nor could twenty men force them in, nor ten hold them there, on account of the virtue of that sacred body.  In this country there grows no grain but rice. It is remarkable that large fine horses in process of breeding produce only ponies with twisted legs, unfit for riding, and good for nothing. The people go to battle .with lance and shield, entirely naked ; yet are they not valiant and courageous, but mean and cowardly. They kill no animals of any description ; but when they wish to eat their flesh, make them be slain by the Saracens and other nations, whose laws and customs are different. Both men and women wash the whole body in water twice every day, morning and evening, and till then will neither eat nor drink. He who omits this observance is regarded as we do a heretic.  Very severe justice is executed upon those who commit murder or any other trespass, When a creditor has repeatedly applied for payment and been deceived by fallacious promises, he takes the following course. He draws a circle round the debtor, who dares not move beyond it, till he has either made payment or given good security ; and should he attempt to escape, he becomes liable to capital punishment. Marco himself, when returning homeward through this country, was eyewitness to a remarkable transaction of this nature. The king owed a sum of money to a foreign merchant, and being frequently solicited, he put him off with empty promises. One day, when his majesty was riding out, the creditor took the opportunity of describing such a circle round his person. On seeing what had been done, the monarch immediately stopped, and did not move from the spot till the demand was satisfied. ‘The people viewed with admiration this conduct, and pronounced their sovereign well entitled to the epithet of just.  Most persons abstain from drinking wine, and reject the testimony or guarantee of those who indulge in it ;also of mariners, accounted a reckless and desperate race. Dissolute conduct is practised without censure. The heat is wonderful, and is the cause of their going naked. No rain falls except in June, July, and August, and were not the air cooled by showers during these three months, it would be impossible to live. Many are skilled in an art which they call physiognomy, which consists in knowing men or women, their qualities good or bad, by merely seeing them. They regard augury beyond any people in the world ; for, I assure you, if a man sets out on a journey, and meets an omen deemed unlucky, he often turns back.Whenever a boy or girl is born, the father or mother causes the nativity to be written out, the day, month, and hour, and these are interpreted by astrologers learned in enchantment and the magical art.  As soon as a son attains the age of thirteen, he is set at liberty, and no longer allowed to remain in his father’s house. He receives from twenty to twenty-four groats of their money, and is then considered capable of earning his own subsistence by some trade. These boys, accordingly, run about in all directions throughout the day, buying and selling. During the pearl-fishery, they frequent the beach and purchase from the fishermen five or six small ones, which they carry to the merchant, who, on account of the heat, has remained seated in his house. They tell him what they have paid, and demand a reasonable profit, which he usually gives. The day’s business being over, they carry provision to their mothers, who prepare and dress it for their dinner ; but they do not depend at all on their father for a maintenance.  Here, and throughout all India, the birds and beasts are different from ours, except one bird, which is the quail. They have also bald owls, which fly in the night ; they have neither wings nor feathers, and are as large as an eagle. The eagles are black like crows, larger than ours, expert both at flying and hawking. Another thing worth mentioning is, that they feed their horses with flesh and many other dishes cooked with rice. Their monasteries are filled with idols, to whom many young girls are devoted by their parents. They must go to the monastery whenever required by the superior, which is usually several times a-week. They there sing, dance, and make great rejoicings. These young ladies also prepare savoury dishes of flesh and other food, which they carry to the sanctuary, and place before the idol as much as would make a good meal for a great lord. They then dance, sing, and rejoice, till time has been given for him to feed on the substance of the meat, when they take and eat it themselves, with great rejoicing. These ladies, who are very numerous, continue the same mode of life till after their marriage.Having given you this full account of the manners, customs, and doings of this kingdom, we shall depart and tell of another, named Mutfili.