This is a very great and noble island, about 2000 miles in circuit.The people are all idolaters, have languages and a king of their own, and are subject to no other power. They are not very tall, but so broad and thick, that in this respect they appear like giants ; and they are likewise immensely strong, bearing as large a burden as four other men, which is really no wonder, for they eat as much as five. They are perfectly black, and go naked, with the exception of a cloth round the waist. Their mouth is so wide, their nose so turned up, their lips and eyes so big, that they are horrible to behold,and any one meeting them in another country would believe them devils. Elephants abound, and a great traffic is carried on in their teeth ; likewise lions of a peculiar species, with ounces and leopards. In short, they have all kinds of beasts different from others in. the world ; including sheep entirely white, with only the head black, and none of any other colour.Here too is the giraffe, a most beautiful creature, whose shape I will describe. Behind, it is low, and the legs very short ; while those before, and the neck, are very large, so that its head rises three paces from the ground. The animal is small, and is quite harmless; and its colour being red and white, in circles, it is very beautiful.t But there is a thing which I had forgotten about the elephant, that it caresses the female in the same manner as the human species. I must say, the women of this island are most ugly objects; with large mouth, eyes, and nose, and their breasts four times the ordinary size; in short, they are hideous. The people live on rice, flesh, milk, and dates, and though they have no vines, make a very good liquor of rice, sugar, and spices. There is a great trade, particularly in elephants’ teeth; and a good quantity of amber. The men are very brave in combat, and have little fear of death. They have no horses, but fight upon camels and elephants, placing on them castles well covered, with sixteen or twenty men mounted on them, bearing lances, swords, and staves, and making a very powerful force in battle.They have no arms except leathern shields, lances, and swords, with which they fight well. When leading the elephant to the combat, they give him to drink of their wine or liquor, which renders him more -fierce and effective. I must now proceed to the great province of Abascia, but first wish to say something more of India in general.