This country lies to the north-west as you go from Cormos to the river Gihon, extending towards the terTitory of the great khan. It is governed by a nephew (cousin) of his, named Kaidu, grandson of Ciagatai, brother to that monarch. He isa very powerful lord, ruling many cities and castles. His subjects are Tartars, very able combatants, much inured to fighting, and he does not obey the khan, but is rather at perpetual war with him. This is because Kaidu demanded constantly from that monarch a share of his conquests, particularly in Catai and Manji. The latter said he would willingly grant it to him, as to his other descendants, if he would come to his court and council whenever summoned. But the other, afraid to trust his uncle, offered to obey him where he was, but dreaded that if in his power he would be put to death. Hence arose this discord, and the khan drew his forces around the realm of Kaidu to guard against an invasion; yet that prince contrived to penetrate, and fought repeatedly with the armies of Kublai; for he could bring into the field 100,000 brave and skilful horsemen. He had with him also many lords of the imperial lineage. Each soldier carries to battle sixty arrows, thirty smaller for shooting, and thirty larger, pointed with heavy iron, to throw against the face or arms of the enemy, or cut the cords of his bow; and when they have discharged all these, they lay their hand on their swords, and strike most terrible blows. Now, in the year 1266, this king, with his cousin named Jesudar, assembled a very great army, and marched against two barons that were also his relations, but held their lands from the great khan. Kaidu and his cousin fought with these two chiefs, who had also a very large force, so that between them there were 100,000 horsemen. They contended hardly and long, and many fell on both sides; but at last Kaidu conquered; however, the two barons, being well mounted, escaped without injury. The victor then became still more proud and boastful; yet he returned home and remained two years in peace. Then he assembled a mighty host of cavalry, having learned that at Karakorum there was a great army under Nomogan, a son of the khan, and George, a grandson of Prester John. He marched thither with all speed, and the two chiefs being informed of his approach, courageously prepared to meet him with their horsemen, amounting to upwards of 60,000. Having reached the place where his men were ranged in tents on the plain, they skilfully established their own camp. Each party rested and made preparations for three days, when they advanced to the combat. There was little advantage on either side ; both having about 60,000 mounted men well armed at every point, divided into six squadrons of 10,000. They waited only till they heard their lord sound the maccar ; meantime performing loudly on various musical instruments. At length the signal was given, when the hosts rushed against each other, laying their hands on their bows. The arrows filled the air like rain; men and horses were mortally wounded ; noise and cries arose so loud that the thunder of Jove could not have been heard. Truly this was an evil hour for many, who on both sides fell dead and dying. The arrows being discharged, they rushed on with sword and spear, giving and receiving most dreadful blows. You might see arms and hands cut off, and numbers of men rolling senseless on the earth. Kaidu displayed signal prowess, and his soldiers would have often been driven off the field, had he not encouraged and rallied them. On the other side, the two princes also firmly stood their ground, and it really was one of the most cruel battles ever fought between Tartar tribes. Yet though each strove with all his might to discomfit the other, neither could succeed, and the conflict lasted tillevening. On this fatal day, multitudes of men fell, many wives were made widows, children made orphans, and households filled with tears and lamentations. But when the sun set, the struggle could endure no longer, and both parties returned to their camp overpowered with fatigue, happy to rest during the night. When morning dawned, King Kaidu, having received intelligence that the great khan was marching against him with a mighty host, deemed it unsafe to remain longer. Wherefore he and all his men mounted and rode off to their own country ; the two princes were so exhausted, that they did not attempt to follow, so that he with his people reached Samarcand, the capital of his kingdom.  The great khan felt much wrath at Kaidu for committing such ravages, and bethought himself, that had he not been his nephew, he would have seized his land and put him to a cruel death; but regard to his own flesh restrained him. Thus he escaped out of the hand of the mighty monarch. But I have wonderful stories to tell you about a daughter of this prince.