Now there was a great and aged Tartar baron, who felt much pity for the prisoner, and bethought him how wicked it was to keep their lord in this condition. He resolved, therefore, to attempt his deliverance. He argued to this effect with many other chiefs, who, esteeming his wisdom, and conscious that he spake the truth, entirely agreed with him. Then Boga, who had made the proposal, Elcidai, Togan, Tegana, Taga, Tiar Oulatai, and Samagar, all went to the tent of the captive prince. The first, asthe eldest and the leader, addressed him thus,—“ Noble prince, we are now fully sensible of having acted wickedly towards you, and have determined to return to the right path; we will therefore deliver and own you as justly our liege lord.” Argon, who thought they were mocking him, was both grieved and angry. “ My lords,” said he, “ you have done wrong enough in seizing your sovereign and making him a captive. Pray depart, and do not also make him a subject of mockery.” “ Illustrious prince,” said Boga, “ we positively speak the truth, and will make oath to it according to our law.” Then all the barons swore that they would obey him as their lord, while he in return bound himself in no degree to resent past wrongs, but hold each of them as dear as Abaga his father had done. They then freed him from his chains, and did homage to him. He now ordered them to discharge their arrows against the tent of the melic; and that chief, named Soldan, who was the first after Acomat, and the commander of the whole host, was quickly slain. Finding himself thus lord of all, he gave orders to march to the court, and was instantly obeyed. One day, thereafter, when Acomat was holding a splendid festival in his palace, a messenger came to him and said,—“ Sire, I bring you with regret unwelcome tidings ; the barons have delivered Argon, owned him as lord, and killed Soldan your faithful friend. They are coming now with their utmost speed to take and slay you.” He was then silent, but the other was completely amazed and terrified. However, as a bold and brave man, he ordered the messenger not to say a word to a living creature; then mounting on horseback, set out with a few trusty servants, to seek refuge with the Sultan of Babylon, leaving all in ignorance whither he had gone. After marching six days, he came to the only pass by which he could penetrate. The commander who guarded it knew him, and seeing him fleeing with only a few adherents, determined to seize him, Acomat entreated for mercy, and offered a great treasure as the price of liberty ; but the other, being greatly attached to Argon, replied that the wealth of the world would not prevent his placing him in his master’s hands. He prepared a large company, and set out with his captive, watching him so carefully as to make escape impossible. They rode on to the court, where Argon had arrived only three days before, and been much vexed to find that his uncle had escaped ; but when the guardian of the pass brought the fugitive before his presence, he felt the greatest possible joy. He received the latter sternly, telling him that he would meet with the treatment he deserved; and without asking any one’s advice, he commanded him to be led forth and slain, This mandate was speedily executed, and the body was thrown into a place where it was never seen more.Thus have you heard the whole affair of Argon and of Acomat his uncle.