In this quarter isa king named Conci. He and all his people are Tartars, and adhere to the rudest and most brutal customs of that nation, never having changed since the time of Gengis Khan.They have a god of felt, named Nacigai, to whom they also give a wife, calling these two lords of the earth, who guard all their corn, beasts, and landed property ; and when they get any victuals, they anoint with them the mouth of these deities. The king is independent, being of the imperial lineage of Gengis, and a near relation of the great khan. He has neither cities nor castles, but his people reside in vast plains, diversified with valleys and mountains. They are very submissive to him, and he successfully studies to preserve among them peace and union.* They have no grain, but live on milk and cattle, which abound, including camels, horses, oxen, sheep, and other animals. There are also bears, white all over, and longer than twenty palms, with foxes, large and black ; likewise a great number of sables, whose costly skins I have mentioned as worth each a thousand bezants. The rats of Pharaoh are plentiful, and very large, affording food to the people during the whole summer. In short, all kinds of wild beasts abound in this savage and. trackless region. I must also mention, that this king has a country in which horses cannot travel, on account of the numerous lakes and fountains, and the quantity of ice and mud. This rugged tract extends thirteen days’ journey, and at the end of each is a post-house to accom modate the messengers, with about forty dogs, almost as large as asses, to convey them from one post to the other. As wheeled carriages cannot travel here, they employ sledges, so formed as to move over the surface without sinking ; such, indeed, as are used in this country to convey hay and straw when there is great rain and mud. On the sledge is spread a bear’s skin, whereon the messenger sits, and the dogs drag it direct to the following post. The guardian mounts a similar carriage, and guides him by the best and nearest way. At the next post, they find another relay of sledges and dogs, and the one which conveyed them returns. The men dwelling in this wild country are very expert hunters, capturing many precious little animals, such as sables, ermines, and black foxes, whose skins yield a large profit. They have engines so well contrived that no animal can escape. But owing to the extreme cold, all their habitations are under ground.Having nothing more to mention, we shall depart and treat of a place where there is perpetual twilight.