Description of China, and of the Court of the Emperor
Kublai.

Kublai, Great Khan of the Tartars, and Emperor of China—
His War with Nayan—Favour for the Christians—Description of Kambalu (Pe-king)—An Insurrection there—Great
Festivals celebrated by the Emperor—Their Order and Pomp
—Hisextensive Hunting Expeditions—Leopards,Falcons,and
other Animals employed—Mode of pursuing and taking the
Game—HuntingPalace atShanduinTartary—AtCianganor—
Paper Money—Large Revenue— Arrangement of his Government and Officers—Bounty towards the People—Manners and
Superstitions of the Chinese—Marco Polo’s Journey through
the Western Provinces—Thibet, Bengal,and the neighbouring
Countries—Return to the Vicinityof Pe-king—Journey through
the Eastern Provinces—The Y ellow River—Manjior Southern
China—Its Conquest by Kublai—Character of the deposed
King—Nan-king and other great Cities—The Kiang—Its immense Trade and Shipping—Kin-sai, the Capital—Its extraordinaryExtent and Magnificence—Splendour of its Palace—
Journey through Tche-kiang and Fo-kien—The Porcelain
Manufacture—Arrival at Zai-tun or Amoy.

I.—Power and Magnificence of Kublai.
Now I am to give you a wonderful account of the
greatest king of the Tartars, still reigning, named
Kublai, or lord of lords. That name is assuredly well
merited, since he is the most powerful in people, in lands,
and in treasure, that is, or ever was, from the creation
of Adam to the present day ; and by the statements to
be made in this book, every man shall be satisfied that
he really is so. Whosoever descends in the direct line
from Gengis is entitled to be master of all the Tartars,
and Kublai is the sixth great khan. He began to reign
in the year of our Lord 1256,and maintained the dominion by his valour, address, and wisdom. His brothers
sought to oppose his succession, but by bravery and
right he triumphed over them.t From the beginning
of his reign, forty-two years have elapsed to the present
day, in the year 1298. He is now full eighty-five years
old, and before his accession commanded many armies,
when he approved himself good at weapons, and a brave
captain. But since that time he has joined the army
only once, which was in the year 1286, and I will tell
you on what occasion.

II.—Insurrection raised by Nayan.

You must understand that a certain cousin of his,
named Nayan, who, like his ancestors, was his vassal, yet
had many lands and provinces of his own, and could raise
400,000 horsemen, being thirty years old,refused to remain
longer in subjection, and assumed the whole sovereignty
to himself. He sent to a certain great lord, named
Kaidu, a nephew of that monarch, but in rebellion against
him, and desirous of doing him the greatest injury. To
him Nayan proposed to attack the monarch on one side,
while he himself advanced on another, so that they might
acquire the dominion over his whole territory. Kaidu
declared himself well pleased, and promised to be ready
at the time appointed. He could bring into the field
100,000 cavalry ; and those two assembled a mighty army
on horseback and foot, and marched against the great
khan.

III.—Kublai prepares to meet him.

When Kublai learned these things, he was not at all
alarmed, but declared, that he wished he might never
wear a crown, nor hold sway over a kingdom, if he did
not bring the traitors to an evil death. He therefore made
his whole army be prepared in twenty-two days, and so
secretly, that nothing was known beyond his own council.
He raised full 360,000 mounted soldiers, and 100,000 infantry ; and the reason of their number not being greater,
was, that they consisted only of his huntsmen, and those
immediately round his person, the rest being employed
in carrying on distant wars ; for if he could have assembled his whole host, the multitude would have been such
as no man could have numbered. He then called his
astrologers, and asked of them if he would be victorious ;
they answered, that he would do to his enemies according to his pleasure.

IV.—Description of the Battle.

The great khan having assembled these forces, took
his departure, and in twenty days came to a vast plain,
where Nayan had assembled all his troops, amounting to 400,000 warriors. The khan took much care
to scour the paths, and intercept all who could have
carried the intelligence ; so that when he approached
at dawn of day, the rebel was lying asleep in bed
with a favourite wife, not having the least dread of
his arrival, and, consequently, no guard on any side
of the camp. Kublai then advanced, having a tower
fixed upon four elephants, whereon were placed his
ensigns, so that he could be seen by the whole army.

His men, divided into bands of twenty thousand, surrounded in a moment the adverse force, each soldier
having a footman on the crupper behind him, with a
bow in his hand. When Nayan and his men saw their
camp thus encircled by the khan and his host, they
were seized with amaze ; yet they ran to arms, formed
themselves in order of battle, and were soon prepared to
strike. Then began the beating on many instruments,
and singing with loud voices; for it is the custom of
the Tartars, that until the horn termed naccar is winded
the troops do not engage. But when that grand trumpet
of the great khan was sounded, all the other performers
began playing, and raising their voices very loud, making a noise that was truly most wonderful. Then the
two armies rushed against each other with sword, spear,
and lance, while the footmen were prepared with bow
and quiver. The battle was fierce and cruel; the arrows filled the air like rain ; horses and horsemen were
seen falling to the ground; and the tumult was such,
that if Jove had thundered, he could not have been
heard. Nayan was a baptized Christian, and therefore
had the cross upon his standard.Never, in our day,
was there so hard and terrible a combat, nor so many
assembled on one field, especially of horsemen ; and the
number who fell on both sides was fearful to behold.
The battle continued from nine in the morning till midday ; but the great khan at last remained master of the
field. When Nayan and his men saw that they could
hold out no longer, they betook themselves to flight ;
but it availed them nothing; he was taken, and all
his troops surrendered.

V.—The Death of Nayan.

When that great monarch heard that Nayan was
taken, he ordered him to be put to death in the manner
I am now to tell you. He was wrapped ina carpet, and
violently tossed to and fro till he died. This mode was
adopted, that, being of imperial lineage, his blood might
not be shed on the ground, nor his cries ascend into the
air. When that battle was gained, four of his provinces
paid tribute and homage to the great khan. These
were Cicorcia, Cauli, Bastol, and Suchintin.

VI.—Kablai silences the Mockery of the Jews and Saracens.

When themonarch had achieved this triumph, the Saracens, Pagans, Jews, and other generations of men who believe not in God, expressed wonder at the cross which the
vanquished leader had carried on his standard, and said in
derision of the Christians,—“see how the cross of your God
has aided Nayan and his people.” They made such a
noise on this subject, that it came to the ears of the prince,
who was much displeased, and sending for the Christians,
said to them,—if your God did not assist Nayan, he acted
with great justice, because he is a good and righteous God.
Nayan was a traitor and rebel against his lord, and therefore God did well in not assisting him.” Then the Christians replied,—O, great sire! thou hast spoken the truth,
for the cross will aid nothing unjust, and he met only
what he well deserved.” Having gained this victory, the
great khan returned to his capital, Kambalu, with much
festival and rejoicing. When the other king, named
Kaidu, heard how his ally had been worsted, he was
struck with fear, and did not attempt to lead his army
against the monarch. Now you have seen how that
prince went to battle, and for what cause, while on all
other occasions he sent his son and his barons ; but this
war was of such magnitude that it seemed to deserve his
own immediate presence,

VII.—His Opinions as to the Christian Religion.

The grand khan, having obtained this splendid victory, returned with great pomp and triumph to his
capital of Kambalu. He arrived there in November,
and remained till after March, in which month our festival of Easter occurred. Aware that this was one of
our most solemn periods, he commanded all the Christians to attend him, bringing with them their book containing the four gospels. He caused it, in a very respectful manner, to be repeatedly perfumed with incense,
ordering all his nobles present to do the same. Such
was the custom upon each of the two great festivals of
Easter and Christmas; and he followed the same course
as that pursued by the Saracens, Jews, and idolaters.
Being asked the reason of this conduct, he replied,—
“there are four great prophets revered and worshipped
by different classes of mankind. The Christians hold
Christ as their divinity ; the Saracens, Mohammed ; the
Jews, Moses; and the idolaters, Sogomombar Khan, their
most distinguished idol. I honour and respect all the four,
and seek aid from them, as any one of them may really
be supreme in heaven.” Yet, from the behaviour of his
majesty towards the Christians, he evidently believed
their faith the best and truest ; observing, that it enjoined nothing on its professors that was not full of virtue and
holiness. He would not indeed allow the cross to be borne
before them in processions, because, as he said, on it so
exalted a person had been nailed and put to death. Some
may ask, why if thus partial to the true faith, he did not
openly embrace it? He stated his reason to Nicolo and
Maffio Polo, when, on his sending them ambassadors to
the Pope, they ventured to address to him a few words on
the subject. “ Why,” said he, “should I become a
Christian? You must yourselves see that the professors
of that faith now in this country are ignorant and weak,
unable to do any thing extraordinary, while the idolaters have power to do whatever they please. While I
am seated at table, the cups, filled with wine or other
beverage, come to me from the middle of the hall spontaneously, without being touched by any human hand.
They are able to control bad weather, and force it to retire to any quarter of the heavens; they can perform
other wonderful things of the same nature. You have
witnessed their idols exercising the faculty of speech,
and predicting whatever events are inquired into. Should
I become a convert and profess Christianity, the nobles
of my court, and others disinclined to the faith, will ask
what adequate motives have induced me to be baptized.
‘What wonders, what miracles, they will say, have its
ministers performed! But the idolaters declare, that
their exhibitions are made through their own holiness
and the might of their idols. To this I shall be unable
to make any answer, and be considered as labouring under
a grievous mistake, while the heathen teachers, by the
profound art which they display, may easily accomplish
my death. Return, however, to your pontiff, and present to him my request, that he would send a hundred
persons learned in your law, who, when confronted with
the others, will be able to control them, and while
proving themselves endowed with similar skill, shall render their antagonists unable in their presence to carry on
these practices. On witnessing this, I will interdict the
exercise of their religion, and suffer myself to be baptized.
This example will be followed by all my nobility, and
by my subjects in general ; so that the Christians in these
regions will become more numerous than those inhabiting
yourowncountry.” From this language it evidently appears that had the pope sent out persons duly qualified
to preach the gospel, the great khan would have embraced that faith, for which he certainly entertained a
strong predilection.

VIII.—Rewards bestowed on his Soldiers.

Now let us tell of the officers and barons of the
great khan, and how he rewarded those who fought with
him in the battle against Nayan. To those who commanded 100 men, he gave the command of 1000, and
to those of 1000 that of 10,000 ; and he bestowed, according to their rank, tablets of gold or of silver, on all of
which was written,—By the might of the great God,
and by the favour which he gave to our emperor : may
that prince be blessed, and may all those who do not
obey him die and be destroyed.” Those who hold these
documents enjoy certain privileges, with written instructions how they are to exercise their authority. He who
commands 100,000 men receives a golden one, weighing
300 saggi, under which is sculptured a lion on one side,
and on the other the sun and moon. Those who bear
these noble tablets have instructions, that whenever they
ride they should bear above their head an umbrella of
gold, and as often as they are seated, it should be upon
silver. There are also tablets whereon is sculptured a
gerfalcon, which he gives to three great barons, who have
then equal authority with himself. They can take,
whenever they please, and lead from place to place, the
troops and horses of any prince or king; and whoever
dares to disobey in any thing their will and mandate,
must die as a rebel to the sovereign.Now let us speak
of the outward form and manners of this mighty prince.

IX.—The Person of Kublai—His Wives, Concubines, and Sons.

The great khan, lord of lords, named Kublai, is of
a fine middle size, neither too tall nor too short; he
has a beautiful fresh complexion, and well-proportioned
limbs. His colour is fair and vermeil like the rose,
his eyes dark and fine, his nose well formed and placed.
He has four ladies, who always rank as his wives ; and
the eldest son, born to him by one of them, succeeds as
the rightful heir of the empire. They are named empresses ; each bears his name, and holds a court of her
own; there is not one who has not 300 beautiful
maidens, with eunuchs, and many other male and female
attendants, so that some of the courts of these ladies
contain 10,000 persons; and when he wishes to visit
any one, he makes her come to his apartment, or
sometimes goes to hers. He maintains also a number of
concubines. There is a race of Tartars who are called
Migrat or Ungrat,and are a very handsome people.
From them are selected 100 girls,t the most beautiful
in all their country, who are conducted to court. He
makes them be guarded by the ladies of the palace ; and
they are examined if they have a sweet breath, and be
sound in all their limbs. Those that are approved in
every respect wait upon their great lord in the following
order: six of them attend every three days, then other
six come in their place, and so on throughout the year.
It may be asked, if the people of this province do not
feel aggrieved by having their children thus forcibly
taken away. Assuredly not: on the contrary, they
regard it asa favour and an honour; and the fathers
feel highly gratified when their daughters are thus selected. If, says one, my daughter is born under an
auspicious planet, his majesty can best fulfil her destiny by marrying her more nobly than I can do. On
the contrary, if the young lady, by bad conduct or any
misfortune, be found disqualified, he attributes the disappointment to her malignant stars.Know, too, that
the great khan has by his wives twenty-two sons ; the
elder was named Gyngym Khan, and was to be lord of all
the empire after his father ; but he died, leaving a son
named Temur, who in time will succeed ; he is a wise
and good man, tried in many battles.t The monarch
has also twenty-five sons by his concubines; and each
is a great baron; and of the twenty-two sons by his
four wives, seven reign over large kingdoms, like wise
and good men, because they resemble their father,—
and he is the best ruler of nations and conductor of
wars in the world. Now Ihave told you about himself,
his wives, sons, and concubines ; next I wil] relate how
he holds his court.

X.—His magnificent Palace in Kambalu.

He resides in the vast city of Kambalu, three months
in the year, December, January, and February, and
has here his great palace, which I will now describe.

It is a complete square, a mile long on every side, so
that the whole is four miles in circuit ; and in each
angle is a very fine edifice, containing bows, arrows,
cords, saddles, bridles, and all other implements of war.
In the middle of the wall between these four edifices
are others, making altogether eight, filled with stores,
and each containing only a single article. Towards
the south are five gates, the middle one very large,
never opened nor shut unless when the great khan is
to pass through ; while on the other side is one by
which all enter in common.t Within that wall is
another, containing eight edifices similarly constructed ;
in which is lodged the wardrobe of the sovereign.
These walls enclose the palace of that mighty lord,
which is the greatest that ever was seen. The floor
Tises ten palms above the ground, and the roof is exceedingly lofty. The walls of the chambers and stairs are all
covered with gold and silver, and adorned with pictures
of dragons, horses, and other races of animals. The hall
is so spacious that 6000 can sit down to banquet ; and the
numberof apartmentais incredible. Theroof is externally
painted with red, blue, green, and other colours, and is
so varnished that it shines like crystal, and is seen to a
great distance around. It is also very strongly and durably built. Between the walls are pleasant meadows
filled with various living creatures, as white stags, the
musk animal, deer, wild goats, ermines, and other beautiful creatures. The whole enclosure is full of animals,
except the path by which men pass. On the other side,
towards the south, is a magnificent lake, whither many
kinds of fish are brought and nourished. A river enters
and flows out ; but the fish are retained by iron gratings.
Towards the north, about a bowshot from the palace,
Kublai has constructed a mound, full a hundred paces
high and a mile in circuit, all covered with evergreen
trees which never shed their leaves. When he hears of
a beautiful tree, he causes it to be dug up, with all the
roots and the earth round it, and to be conveyed to him
on the backs of elephants, whence the eminence has
been made verdant all over, and is called the green mountain. On the top is a palace, also covered with verdure ;
it and the trees are so lovely that all who look upon
them feel delight and joy. In the vicinity is another
palace, where resides the grandson of the great khan,
Temur, who is to reign after him, and who follows the
same life and customs as his grandsire. He has already
a golden bull and the imperial seal ; but he has no authority while his grandfather lives.

XI.—Description of the City of Kambalu.

Having described to you the palaces, I will tell you
of the great city of Cathay, which contains them.
Near it is another large and splendid one, also named
Kambalu, which means in our language city of the lord;
but the monarch, finding by astrology that this town
would rebel, built another near it, divided only by a
river, and bearing the same name, to which its inhabitants
were compelled to remove.It forms a regular square,
six miles on each side, and thus twenty-four miles in
circumference. It is surrounded by walls of earth, ten
paces thick and twenty in height; yet the upper part
becomes gradually thinner, so that at top the breadth is
only three paces. There are twelve gates, each containing an edifice, making one in each square of that wall,
and filled with men, who guard the place. The streets
are so broad and so straight that from one gate another is visible. It contains many beautiful houses and
palaces, and a very large one in the midst, containing a
steeple with a large bell, which at night sounds three
times ; after which no man must leave the city without
some urgent necessity, as of sickness, or a woman about
to beara child. At each gate a thousand men keep guard,
not from dread of any enemy, but in reverence of the
monarch who dwells within it, and to prevent injury by
robbers.

XII.—The Suburbs—Merchants.

When the monarch comes to his chief city, he remains in his noble palace three days and no more,
when he holds a great court, making high festival and
Tejoicing with his ladies. There is a vast abundance of
people through all the suburbs of Kambalu, which are
twelve in number, one corresponding to each gate ; no
one can count the number of residents ; and they contain
as stately edifices as any in the city, except the king’s
Palace. No one is allowed to be buried within the city ;
and no females of bad character can reside there, but
must have their dwellings in the suburbs, where there
are said to be no fewer than 20,000. There are brought
also to Kambalu the most costly articles in the world,
the finest productions of India, as precious stones and
pearls, with all the produce of Cathay and the surrounding countries, in order to supply the lords and the barons
and ladies who reside there. Numerous merchants,
likewise, bring more than a thousand wagons laden
with grain; and all who are within a hundred miles
of the city come thither to purchase what they want.

XIII.—Wicked Administration of Achmac—Insurrection.

I will hereafter particularly mention a council of
twelve persons, having power to dispose at will of the
lands, governments, and all things belonging to the
state. One of these, a Saracen, named Achmac, had
acquired an extraordinary influence with the great khan ;
indeed his master was so infatuated with him that
he allowed him the most uncontrolled license. It was
even discovered after his death that he had employed
spells to fascinate the khan, and compel him to give
full credit to what was told him by his favourite, who
was thus enabled to conduct public affairs according
to his pleasure. He disposed of all the commands and
public offices; passed sentence upon offenders; and
when desirous to inflict an injury on any one whom he
hated, needed only to go to the emperor and say, “such
a man has been guilty of an offence against your majesty,
and deserves death.” The monarch usually replied, do
as you judge best, and Achmac then ordered him to be
immediately executed. So manifest were the proofs of
his influence, and of the sovereign’s implicit reliance on his
statements, that no one dared to contradict him on any
occasion ; even those highest in office stood in awe of
him. Any one charged by him with a capital offence,
whatever means he might employ to justify himself and
refute the accusation, could not find an advocate ; for
none dared to oppose the purpose of Achmac. Thus 
he caused unjustly the death of many, and was also enabled to indulge his unlawful propensities. Whenever
he saw a woman who pleased him, he contrived either
to add her to the number of his wives, or to lead her
into a criminal intimacy. On receiving information of
any man having a beautiful daughter, he despatched
emissaries with instructions to say to him, “ what are
your views with regard to this handsome girl? the
best thing you can do is to give her to the lord-vicegerent ;” for so they termed Achmac, implying that he
was his majesty’s representative ; “we will induce him
to appoint you to a certain government or office for three
years.” The father was thus tempted to give away his
child ; and as soon as the affair was arranged, the other
went and informed the emperor that a government was
vacant, or would become so on a particular day, and recommended the parent as well qualified to discharge its
duties. His majesty consented; and the appointment
was immediately made. Thus, either through ambition
to hold high office, or dread of his power, he obtained
possession of the fairest females, under the denomination
of wives or of concubines. Besides, he had twentyfive sons, who held the highest offices in the state, and,
availing themselves of his authority, were guilty of similar violent and licentious proceedings. He had likewise
accumulated great wealth, since every one who obtained
an appointment found it requisite to make him a liberal
present.

During a period of twenty-two years, he exercised
this absolute authority. At length the Kataians, natives
of the country, unable to endure longer his multiplied
acts of injustice and violation of domestic rights, began
to devise means of bringing about his death and the overthrow of the government. Among the leading persons in
this plot wasChenku, a commander of 6000 men, in whose
family his dissolute conduct had spread dishonour. He
proposed the measure to one of his nation, named Vanku,
who commanded 10,000 men, and suggested for its execution the period when the great khan, having completed
his three months’ residence in Kambalu, should have
departed for his palace at Shandu, while his son Gengis
had also retired to the place usually visited by him at
that season. The charge of the city was then intrusted.
to Achmac, who communicated all affairs that occurred.
during his master’s absence, and received the necessary
instructions. Vanku and Chenku, having thus consulted together, imparted the design to some leading
persons among the Kataians, and also to their friends in
various other cities. They formed an agreement, that
on a certain day, immediately on perceiving a signal
made by fire, they should rise and put to death all persons wearing beards, This distinction was made because they themselves naturally wanted this appendage, which characterized the Tartars, the Saracens, and
the Christians. The grand khan, having acquired the
sovereignty of Kataia, not by any legitimate right, but
solely by force of arms, placed no confidence in the natives, and therefore intrusted ail the provincial governments to Tartars, Saracens, Christians, and other foreigners belonging to his household. From this cause his
reign was universally detested by the people, who found
themselves treated as slaves by the Tartars, and still
worse by the Saracens.

Vanku and Chenku, having thus arranged their plans,
succeeded at night in entering the palace; when the
former placed himself on one of the royal seats, made
the apartment be lighted up, and sent a messenger to
Achmac, then residing in the old city. He professed to
come from Gengis, the emperor’s son, who, he said, had
unexpectedly arrived, and required his immediate attendance. The viceroy was much surprised by this intelligence ; but, as he stood in awe of the prince, he presently obeyed. On passing the gate of the new city, he
met the Tartar officer named Kogatai, who commanded
the guard of 12,000 men, and who asked him whither he
‘was going at that late hour. He stated his intention of
waiting upon Gengis, whose arrival had just been announced to him. “It is very surprising,” said the officer,
“how he should have come so secretly that I was not
apprized of it, 0 as to send a party of guards to attend
him.” The two Kataians, meantime, felt confident, that
if they could succeed in despatching Achmac, they
had nothing farther to fear. On entering the palace, and
seeing so many lights blazing, he prostrated himself
before Vanku, whom he supposed to be the prince, when
Chenku, who held a sword ready in his hand, severed his
head from his body. Kogatai had stopped at the door ;
but, seeing this catastrophe, he exclaimed that treason
was at work, and presently discharged an arrow, which
slew Vanku as he sat upon the throne. He then caused
his men to seize the other, and despatched an order to the
city to kill every one who should be found abroad. The
Kataians, however, seeing the conspiracy discovered, one
of their chiefs killed, and the survivor a prisoner, remained in their houses, and could not make the concerted
signals to the other towns. Kogatai lost no time in sending messengers with a particular relation of these events
to the khan, who, in reply, ordered him diligently to investigate the conspiracy, and to punish according to the
degree of their guilt those found implicated in it. Next
day, after receiving this command, he examined all the
Kataians, and inflicted the punishment of death on the
Tingleaders. Other cities known to have participated
in the guilt suffered similar inflictions.

When his majesty returned to Kambalu, he inquired
eagerly into the cause of this disturbance, and learned
that the infamous Achmac and seven of his sons (the
others being less culpable) had committed several enormities, He gave orders that the treasure, which he
had accumulated to an incredible amount, should be
removed from his place of residence to the new city,
where it was lodged in his own treasury. He directed
even that his corpse should be disinterred, and thrown
into the street, where the dogs might tear it in pieces.
The sons, who had pursued the same criminal course
with their father, were ordered to be flayed alive. Considering also the principles of the accursed sect of the
Saracens, which allow them to indulge in the commission
of every crime, and even to murder those who differ
from them on points of belief, whence even the detestable
Achmac and his sons might have imagined themselves
guiltless, he regarded the whole body with contempt
and abomination. Summoning them to his presence,
he forbade the continuance of many practices enjoined in
their law, ordering that in future their marriages should
be arranged according to the Tartar custom ; and that, in
killing animals for food, instead of cutting their throats,
they should rip open the stomach. Marco Polo was on
the spot when these events took place.

XIV.—Guards of the Great Khan.

When the great khan holds a court, he is guarded,
on account of his excellency and honour, by 12,000
horsemen, who are called quiesitan, that is, faithful
servants of their lord; and this he does not from fear
but regard to his high dignity. Over these 12,000 are
four captains, so that each commands 3000; and they
keep guard in turn three days and three nights, eating
and drinking at the expense of the prince. Then they
go away, and another party comes ; and so they proceed
throughout the whole year.

XV.—The Magnificence of his Festivals.

When the khan wishes to celebrate a splendid festival, the tables are so arranged that his is much higher
than the others, and he sits on the north, with his face
toward the south. His first wife is seated beside him on
the left, while, on the right, are his sons and nephews,
and all those of imperial lineage, who are so stationed
that their head is on a level with the feet of the monarch. The barons sit still lower; while the ladies,
daughters, and female relations of the khan are placed
beneath the queen on the left side, and under them all
the wives of the barons ; every class knows the spot
where they ought to sit. The tables are so arranged that
the monarch can see all the company, who are very
numerous ; and outside of that hall there eat more
than 40,000 persons, who have come with presents or
remarkable objects from foreign parts, and attend on
the days when he holds a court or celebrates a marriage. In the midst of this hall is a very large vessel of
fine gold, containing wine, and on each side two smaller
ones, whence the liquor is poured out into flagons, each
containing fully enough for eight men ; and one of these
is placed between every two guests, who have besides
separate cups of gold to drink out of.This supply of
plate is of very great value, and indeed the khan has
so many vessels of gold and silver that none without
seeing could possibly believe it.

At each door of the great hall, or of any part of the
palace occupied by his majesty, stand two officers of gigantic height, holding in their hands staves, to prevent
persons who enter from touching the threshold. If any
one chances to commit this offence, they take from him
his garment, which he must redeem by a payment, or if
they spare his dress, inflict at least a number of blows
fixed by authority. As strangers may not be aware of
this prohibition, officers are appointed to warn them of
it at the time of introduction. Since, however, some of
the company, on leaving the hall, may be so affected
with liquor as to be unable to guard against the accident, it is not then severely punished. Those who serve
the khan at table are great barons, who hold their mouths
carefully wrapped in rich towels of silk and gold, that
their breath may not blow upon the dishes. When he
begins to drink, all the instruments, which are very numerous, are sounded, and while the cup is in his hand,
the barons and others present fall on their knees, and
make signs of great humility ; this is done every time he
drinks, or when new viands are brought in. These I
shall not attempt to recount, since any one may believe
that he will have the greatest variety of beasts and birds,
wild and domestic, and of fishes in their season, and in
the greatest abundance, prepared most delicately in various modes suitable to his magnificence and dignity.
Every baron or knight brings his wife, and she sits at
table along with the other ladies, When the great sire
has eaten, and the tables are removed, a number of
jesters, players, and other witty persons perform various
pieces, exciting much mirth and pleasure among the
company, who then all depart and go to their homes.

XVI.—Great Festival at the King’s Birthday.
The Tartars celebrate a festival on the day of their
nativity. The birthday of the khan is on the 28th September, and is the greatest of all, except that at the beginning of the year. On this occasion he clothes himself in robes of beaten gold, and his twelve barons and
12,000 soldiers wear like him dresses of a uniform colour
and shape ; not that they are so costly, but similarly
made of silk, gilded, and bound by a cincture of gold.
Many have these robes adorned with precious stones and
pearls, so as to be worth 10,000 golden bezants. The
great khan, twelve times in the year, presents to those
barons and knights robes of the same colour with his
own; and this is what no lord in the world can do. On
the day of his nativity, all the Tartars from every province of the world, who hold lands under him, celebrate
a festival, and bring presents suited to their station. The
same is done by every individual who asks from him any
favour or office. He has twelve barons who bestow commands on such persons as they think proper. On that
day, the Christians, Saracens, and all the races of men who
are subject to him, make prayers to their gods that they
will preserve, and grant him a long, healthy, and happy
life. I will tell you no more of this festival, but of another which they celebrate at the beginning of the year,
called the White Feast.

XVII.—Festival of the New Year.

The Tartars begin their year in February,when
the khan and his people celebrate a feast, where all,
both men and women, are clothed in white robes. ‘They
consider these as signifying joy and good fortune,
and that hence all prosperity will happen to them
throughout the year. On that day, all who hold land
or any dominion under him, make the most magnificent presents in their power, consisting of gold, silver,
pearls, precious stones, and rich white cloths; so that,
during the whole year, he may have abundance of treasures, and of the means of enjoying himself. They
present also more than 6000 camels, with about
100,000 beautiful white horses. On that day, too, he
is gratified with at least 5000 elephants covered with
cloths of silk and gold, finely wrought with figures
of beasts and birds, and each having on his back a box
filled with vessels of gold and silver, and other things
necessary for the feast. They all pass before the great
khan, and form the most brilliant spectacle ever seen
in this world. In the morning of that festal day, before
the tables are spread, the kings, generals, counts, astrologers, physicians, falconers, and many other officers and
rulers, repair to the hall of the sovereign, and those who
are not admitted remain without the palace in a place
where the monarch can fully see them. They are in
the following order :—Foremost, his sons, nephews, and
others of his lineage, then kings, generals, and others
according to their rank. As soon as each has taken his
place, a great prelate rises and says, with a loud voice,
“incline and adore ;” and presently all bend down,
strike their foreheads on the earth, and make prayers
to their master, adoring him as a god.This they do
four times, and then go to an altar, on which is written
the name of the great khan, Then, out of a beautiful box, they pour incense on that table in reverence of him, and return to their place ; they next make
those rich and valuable presents which I have described.
When all these things have been done, and the prince
has seen them all, the tables are placed, and they sit
down, when the feast is ordered and celebrated in the
manner already explained. Now that I have described
to you the joy of the White Feast, I will tell you of a
most noble thing done by this monarch ; for he has
ordered vestments to be bestowed upon the barons there
present.

XVIII.—Robes bestowed by the Great Khan.

He has twelve barons, who are called quiesitan, or
the faithful men of the supreme lord. He gives to each
thirteen vestments, differing in colour, and adorned with
precious stones, pearls, and other great and most valuable articles ; also a golden girdle, and sandals worked
with threads of silver, so that each, in these several
dresses, appears like a king; and there is a regulation what dress ought to be worn at each of the feasts.
The monarch has thirteen robes of the same colour with
those of his barons, but more costly. And now I will
relate a most wonderful thing, namely, that a large lion
is led into his presence, which, as soon as it sees him,
drops down, and makes a sign of deep humility, owning
him for its lord, and moving about without any chain.
Now you shall hear of the great huntings made by this
powerful ruler.

XIX.—Profusion of Game supplied to his Court.

He resides in the city of Cathay, that is Kambalu,
three months, December, January, and February, and
has commanded that, for forty days’ journey round, all
the people should engage in hunting and falconry. The
various lords of nations and lands are ordered to bring
to him large beasts, stags, boars, wild-goats, and other
animals. Those at the distance of thirty days’ journey
send the bodies preserved with the entrails taken out,
while those at forty send only the skins, which are employed as furniture for his army.

XX.—Leopards and other wild Animals kept for Hunting.

Now let us tell of the beasts which his majesty
keeps for hunting. Among these are leopards and
lynxes, or stag-wolves, well fitted for that purpose. He
has also many lions larger than those of Babylon, of a
beautiful hair and colour, striped lengthways, black, red,
and white, and trained to catch stags, wild-oxen, hogs,
wild-goats, and asses ; and it is delightful to see one of
these chases, where the hunters go out, carrying the
lion in a cage, and with him a amall dog.They have
likewise abundance of eagles, with which they capture
hares, foxes, and even wolves; those which are trained
to catch these last are very large, and of great weight, so
that no wolf can escape them.

XXI.—His numerous Dogs and splendid Hunting Expeditions.

Now let us speak of the dogs kept by this monarch.
He has two barons who are brothers, named Bayam
and Migam ; they are called cinuci, that is, the keepers
of mastiff dogs, and each commands a party of 10,000
men, one clothed in vermilion, and the other in blue;
whenever they go out with the monarch they are dressed
in these vestments. In each party there are 2000 of
the men, who guide respectively one, two, or more large
mastiffs, making altogether a vast multitude. When
his majesty goes to hunt, these two brothers attend him
on opposite sides, each with 10,000 men and 5000 dogs;
and they hunt thus a day’s journey distant from each
other, and never pursue any animal which is not captured. It is indeed beautiful to see the speed of these dogs
and the hunters, for when the prince goes out with his
barons, boars and other animals are running on every side,
and the dogs pursuing.

XXII.—Falconry and the Chase after Birds.

When the monarch has remained in Kambalu these
three months, he departs and goes southward to the
ocean two days’ journey distant. He leads with him
10,000 falconers, conveying full 5000 gerfalcons, peregrine falcons in abundance, and also many vultures;
but do not imagine that these are all kept in one place ;
there are 200 here, 300 there, and so on. The birds
caught are mostly presented to the great sire, and when
he goes to hunt with his gerfalcons, vultures, and falcons,
10,000 men are ranged, two together, so as to enclose
much ground ; these are called toscaor, meaning in our
language men who remain on the watch, and each has
a call and a hood to invite the birds. And when any
falconer, by order of his majesty, sends forth u falcon,
he has no need to follow it, because wherever it may go,
it is watched by the men ranged in double order, who can
either catch it again, or if necessary afford it succour.
Each of the birds belonging to the sovereign and barons
has a tablet of silver on its feet, with its name and that
of the owner inscribed, so that wherever caught, it
can be returned to him. If he is unknown, the animal must be carried to a chief named bulangazi, or
guardian of things that are lost, who stands with his flag
on an elevated spot, and all who have missed any thing
go to him and recover it. Whoever finds a horse, a bird,
a sword, or any thing else, and does not carry it to the
owner or to this officer, is treated as a robber; thus
scarcely any thing is ever lost. When the monarch
goes upon these excursions, he has with him four
elephants, and a chamber prepared, covered within with
cloth of beaten gold, and outwardly with lions’ skins,
where he keeps twelve of his very best gerfalcons,
with twelve barons to amuse him by their society. As
the falconers ride by, they call, “Sire, the birds are
passing,” when he throws open the chamber, and seeing
the object, selects the gerfalcons that please him, and
sends them forth against the birds, few of which ever
escape. Lying on his couch, he can view and enjoy the
chase. Thus, I think, there is not, and never will be, any
lord in the world, who has or can have so much diversion as the great khan.

XXIII.—Magnificent Tents of the Great Khan.

When this mighty monarch comes to one of his
places, named Chaccia, he causes his tents to be pitched,
with those of his sons and barons. These exceed
10,000 in number, and are very beautiful and rich.
That in which he keeps his court is so large that 1000
knights can dwell in it; this is for his nobles and other
attendants. He himself resides in another, looking westward, where those to whom he wishes to speak are introduced ; while there is an interior chamber in which he sleeps. The two halls have each three fine columns
of aromatic wood, and are covered outwardly with beautiful lions’ hides, all striped with black, white, and vermilion, so that water cannot enter. The inside is lined with skins of ermine and zibelline, of the highest value,
especially the latter, of which a robe suitable for a man
would be worth 2000 golden bezants, while a common
one would be worth 1000. The Tartars call them royal
skins, and they are as large as those of a fawn; the
whole hall is covered with them, worked most delicately
in intaglio. These apartments contain furniture of such
value that a little king could not purchase them. Around
are large tents for his ladies, and for his gerfalcons
and other beasts and birds; for he brings all his train,
doctors, astronomers, hunters, and other officials, so that
the whole appears a large and crowded city. He remains
there till the feast of the Resurrection, during which
time he does nothing but chase cranes, swans, and other
birds, when those who catch any bring them to him, and
thus the sport is beyond what any one can describe.
No baron, nor lord, nor husbandman, can keep a dog
or falcon for twenty days’ journey round his residence ;
beyond that distance they may do what they please.
No person, too, of whatever condition, must, from March
to October, take any game, but leave them to multiply
their kind ; so that hares and stags become so fearless as
frequently to come up to men, yet are not taken. The
great khan then returns to the city of Kambalu by the
same road, hawking and sporting.

XXIV.—Hunting Palace at Shandu in Tartary.

At Shandu in Tartary, near the western frontier
of China, he has built a very large palace of marble and other valuable stones. The halls are gilded all over
and wonderfully beautiful, and a space sixteen miles
in circuit is surrounded by a wall, within which are
fountains, rivers, and meadows. Here he finds stags,
deer, and wild-goats to give for food to the falcons and
gerfalcons, which he keeps in cages, and goes out once
a-week to sport with them. Frequently he rides through
that enclosure, having a leopard on the crupper of his
horse, which, whenever he is inclined, he lets go, and it
catches a stag, deer, or wild-goat, which is given to the
gerfalcons in the cage. In this park, too, the monarch has a large palace framed of cane, the interior
gilded all over, having pictures of beasts and birds most
skilfully worked on it. The roof is of the same material,
and so richly varnished that no water can penetrate. I
assure you these canes are more than three palms thick,
and from ten to fifteen paceslong. They are cut lengthways, from onc knot to the other, and then arranged so
as to form the roof. The whole structure is so disposed
that the khan, when he pleases, can order it to be taken
down, for it is supported by more than 200 cords of silk.
His majesty remains there three months of the year,
June, July, and August, the situation being cool and
agreeable ; and during this period his palace of cane is
set up, while all the rest of the year it is down. On
the 28th of August, he departs thence, and for the
following purpose :—There are a race of mares white
as snow, with no mixture of any other colour, and
in number 10,000, whose milk must not be drunk by
any one who is not of imperial lineage. Only one
other race of men can drink it, called Boriat, because
they gained a victory for Gengis Khan. When one of
these white animals is passing, the Tartars pay respect
to it as to a great lord, standing by to make way for it.
The astrologers and idolaters, too, have told the khan,
that on the 28th August this milk must be sprinkled
through the air, and over the earth, that the spirits may
drink plentifully, and may preserve all that belong to
him, men, women, beasts, birds, and other things. But
there is a wonderful circumstance that I had forgotten.
When the monarch remained in that palace, and there
came on rain, fog, or any bad weather, he had skilful
astronomers and enchanters, who made these mischiefs
fly away from his palace, so that none of them could
approach it. These wise men are called Tebet and
Quesmur ;they are idolaters, and more skilful in
diabolical arts and enchantments than any other generation; and though they do it by the art of the devil,
they make other men believe that it is through their
great sanctity and by the power of God.t I must tell
you, too, another of their customs, that when any man
is judged and condemned to death by his lord, they cook
and eat him, but not when he dies a natural death.t I
will tell you, too, a great wonder which these bakst
do by their enchantments. When the monarch sits at
table in his hall of state, and the cups are ten paces
distant, full of wine, milk, and other beverages, they cause
them, by their magical spells, to rise from the pavement
and place themselves before the prince, without any one
touching them ; this is done in the presence of 10,000
men ; and the fact is real and true, without any lie.
These baksi, when the festivals of their idols come round,
go to his majesty and say, “ Great sire, you know the
feast of such an idol approaches, and are aware that he
can cause bad weather and much mischief to your cattle
and grain. We pray, therefore, that you will give us all
the sheep with black heads, also incense, aloe-wood, and
such and such other things.” This they tell to the barons,
who repeat it to the khan, and he gives what they demand. Then they goto the image and raise in his presence
a delicious fragrance, with incense and spices, cook the
flesh, and place it with bread before him. Thus every god
has his day of commemoration in the same manner as our
saints. They have also extensive abbeys and monasteries,
one of which here resembles a little city, containing
upwards of 2000 monks, who are clothed in a particular
dress, which is handsomer than that of other men. They
worship their idols by the grandest feasts, songs, and
lights that ever were seen. And I may tell you that
many of these baksi, according to their order, may take
wives, do so, and have a number of children. Yet there
is another kind of religious men called sensi, who observe
strict abstinence ; they eat nothing but the husks of corn
boiled in warm water, fast often in the course of the year,
have many large idols, and sometimes adore fire. Their
observances differ from those of every other sect ; they
would not take a wife for any thing in the world. They
shave the head and beard, wear black and blue dresses
of coarse canvass, sleep upon mats, and lead the hardest
life of any men on earth. Their monasteries and their
idols all bear the names of women.

XXV.—Palace at Cianganor.

At Cianganor, too, three days’ journey distant, the
khan has a large palace, where he is fond of residing, because there are many lakes and rivers, as well
as fine plains, abounding in cranes, pheasants, partridges, and other birds. Here, therefore, he has delightful hawking, and abundant exercise for his falcons and gerfalcons. There are five kinds of cranes which
I must describe. The first are black like crows, and
very large. The second are white, and very beautiful,
for all the feathers are full of round eyes, like those of
the peacock, and glitter like gold. The head is white,
black, and red all round, and they are larger than any
of the others. The third species resemble ours. The
fourth are small, and have in their ears very magnificent
red and black feathers. The fifth are all gray, with
handsome red and black heads, and are very large. Near
this city is a valley where the khan has ordered the
erection of various small houses, in which are kept flocks
of partridges, and he employs a number of men to guard
these birds, so that they are in abundance ; and whenever
he comes into this palace, he finds as many as he desires,

XXVI.—Paper Money—Immense Wealth of the Great Khan.

With regard to the money of Kambalu, the great khan
may be called a perfect alchymist, for he makes it himself.
He orders people to collect the bark of a certain tree,
whose leaves are eaten by the worms that spin silk. The
thin rind between the bark and the interior wood is taken,
and from it cards are formed like those of paper, all black.
He then causes them to be cut into pieces, and each is declared worth respectively half a livre, a whole one, asilver
grosso of Venice, and so on to the value of ten bezants.
All these cards are stamped with his seal, and so many
are fabricated, that they would buy all the treasuries
in the world. He makes all his payments in them,
and circulates them through the kingdoms and provinces over which he holds dominion ; and none dares to
refuse them under pain of death. All the nations under
his sway receive and pay this money for their merchandise, gold, silver, precious stones, and whatever they
transport, buy, or sell, The merchants often bring
to him goods worth 400,000 bezants, and he pays
them all in these cards, which they willingly accept,
because they can make purchases with them throughout the whole empire. He frequently commands those
who have gold, silver, cloths of silk and gold, or other
precious commodities, to bring them to him. Then he
calls twelve men skilful in these matters, and commands
them to look at the articles, and fix their price. Whatever they name is paid in these cards, which the merchant cordially receives. In this manner the great sire possesses all the gold, silver, pearls, and precious stones
in his dominions. When any of the cards are torn or
spoiled, the owner carries them to the place whence they
were issued, and receives fresh ones, with a deduction of
3 per cent. If a man wishes gold or silver to make
plate, girdles, or other ornaments, he goes to the office,
carrying a sufficient number of cards, and gives them in
payment for the quantity which he requires, This is the
reason why the khan has more treasure than any other
lord in the world; nay, all the princes in the world together have not an equal amount.

XXVII.—The Twelve Governors of Provinces and their Duty.

He has appointed twelve very great barons, who hold
command over all things in the thirty-four provinces.
They reside in a palace within the city of Kambalu,
large and beautiful, containing many halls and apartments ; and for every province there is an agent and a
number of writers or notaries, having each a house to himself. They manage all the provincial affairs according
to the will and pleasure of the twelve barons. The latter
have power to appoint the lords of the provinces above
mentioned ; and having chosen the one whom they judge
best qualified, they name him to the great khan, who
confirms him, and bestows a golden tablet corresponding
to his command. These twelve barons are called in the
Tartar language scieng, that is, the greater officers of
state. They order the army to go where and in what
numbers they please, but all according to the commands of
the great sire ; and they do every other thing necessary for
the provinces. The palace in which they dwell is called
scien, and is the largest in all the court; they have the
power of doing much good to any one whom they favour.

XXVIII.—The Couriers of the Great Khan and their Stations.

I must now inform you, that from the city of Kambalu, many messengers are sent to divers provinces,
and on all the roads they find, at every twenty-five
miles, a post called jamb, where the imperial envoys are
received. At each is a large edifice, containing a bed
covered with silk, and every thing useful and convenient
for a traveller ; so that ifa king were to come, he would
be well accommodated. Here, too, they find full 400
horses whom the prince has ordered to be always in
waiting to convey them when sent into any quarter,
along the principal roads. When they have to go
through any district where there is no habitation, the
monarch has caused such edifices to be reared at the
distance of thirty-five or at most forty miles; thus they
go through all the provinces, finding every where inns
and horses for their reception. This is the greatest establishment that ever was kept by any king or emperor in
the world ; for at those places there are maintained more
than 200,000 horses. Also the edifices, furnished and
prepared in the manner now described, amount to more
than 10,000. Moreover, in the intervals between these
stations, at every three miles, are erected villages of
about forty houses, inhabited by foot-runners, also employed on these despatches, They wear a large girdle,
set round with bells, which are heard at a great distance.
‘When one of them receives a letter or packet, he runs
full speed to the next village, where his approach being
announced by the bells, another is ready to start and
proceed to the next, and soon. By these pedestrian messengers the khan receives news in one day and night
from places distant ten days’ journey; in two, from
those distant twenty ; and in ten, from those distant a
hundred.t From them he exacts no tribute, but gives
them horses and many other things. When his messengers go on horseback to carry intelligence into the
provinces or bring tidings from distant parts, and, more
especially, respecting any district that has rebelled, they
ride in one day and night 200, 260, or even 300 miles ;
and when there are two, they receive two good horses,
bind themselves round the head and body, and gallop
fall speed from one station to the next at twentyfive miles’ distance, where they find two others fresh and
ready harnessed, on which they proceed with the same
rapidity. They stop not for an instant day nor night,
and are thus enabled to bring news in so short a period.
Now, I will tell you the great bounty which the monarch bestows twice in the year.

XXIX.—The Care and Bounty of the Monarch towards his Subjects.

He sends his messengers through all his kingdoms
and provinces, to know if any of his subjects have
had their crops injured through bad weather or any
other disaster ; and if such injury has happened, he
does not exact from them any tribute for that season or
year ; nay, he gives them corn out of his own stores to
subsist upon, and to sow their fields. This he does in
summer ; in winter he inquires if there has been a mortality among the cattle, and in that case grants similar exemption and aid. When there is a great abundance of
grain, he causes magazines to be formed, to contain wheat,
rice, millet, or barley, and care to be taken that it be
not lost or spoiled ; then when a scarcity occurs, this
grain is drawn forth, and sold for a third or fourth of
the current price.Thus there cannot be any severe
famine ; for he does it through all his dominions; he
bestows also great charity on many poor families in
Kambalu ; and when he hears of individuals who have not
food to eat, he causes grain to be given tothem. Bread
is not refused at the court throughout the whole year
to any who come to beg for it; and on this account he
is adored as a god by his people. His majesty provides them also with raiment out of his tithes of wool,
silk, and hemp. These materials he causes to be woven
into different sorts of cloth, in a house erected for that
purpose, where every artisan is obliged to work one day
in the week for his service. Garments made of the
stuffs thus manufactured are given to destitute families
for their winter and summer dresses, A dress is also
prepared for his armies ; and in every city a quantity
of woollen cloth is woven, being defrayed from the tithes
there levied. It must be observed, that the Tartars,
according to their original customs, when they had not
yet adopted the religion of the idolaters, never bestowed
alms ; but when applied to by any necessitous person,
repelled him with reproachful expressions, saying,—
begone with your complaints of a bad season, God has
sent it to you, and had he loved you, as he evidently
loves me, you would have similarly prospered. But
since some of the wise men among the idolaters, especially the baksi, have represented to his majesty, that
to provide for the poor is a good work and highly grateful to their deities, he has bestowed charity in the manner now described, so that, at his court, none are denied
food who come to ask for it.He has also so arranged
that in all the highways by which messengers, merchants, and other persons travel, trees are planted at short
distances on both sides of the road, and are so tall that
they can be seen from a great distance. They serve
thus both to show the way and afford a grateful shade.
This is done whenever the nature of the soil admits of
plantation ; but when the route lies through sandy deserts
or over rocky mountains, he has ordered stones to be
set up, or columns erected, to guide the traveller. Officers
of rank are appointed, whose duty it is to take care that
these matters be properly arranged, and the roads kept
constantly in good order. Besides other motives, the
great khan is influenced by the declaration of his soothsayers and astrologers, that those who plant trees receive
long life as their reward.

XXX.—Liquor used for Wine in Cathay.

You must know that the greater part of the people
of Cathay drink a wine made of rice and many good
spices, and prepare it in such a way that it is more
agreeable to drink than any other liquid. It is clear and
beautiful, and it makes a man drunk sooner than any
other wine, for it is extremely hot.

XXXI.—Stones which are burnt instead of Wood.
	
It may be observed, also, that throughout the whole
province of Cathay, there are a kind of black stones
cut from the mountains in veins, which burn like logs.
They maintain the fire better than wood. If you put
them on in the evening, they will preserve it the whole
night, and will be found burning in the morning.
Throughout the whole of Cathay this fuel is used.t
They have also wood indeed ; but the stones are much
less expensive.

XXXII.—The Astrologers of Kambalu—the Tartar Computation of Time.

The city of Kambalu contains, inclusive of Christians, Saracens, and Kataians, about 5000 astrologers
and soothsayers, whom the emperor provides with food
and clothing, as he does the poor families; and they are constantly practising their art. They have astrolabes,
on which are delineated the planetary signs, the hours
of passing the meridian, and their successive aspects during the whole year. The astrologers of each separate
sect annually examine their respective tables, to ascertain thence the course of the heavenly bodies, and their
relative positions for every lunation. From the paths
and configurations of the planets in the several signs,
they foretell the state of the weather and the peculiar
phenomena which are to occur in each month. In one,
for instance, there will be thunder and storms; in another earthquakes; ina third violent lightning and rain ;
in a fourth pestilence, mortality, war, discord, conspiracy. What they find in their astrolabes they predict,
adding, however, that God may at his pleasure do either
more or less than they have announced.

Their annual prophecies are written on small squares
called takuini, which are sold at a moderate price to all
persons anxious to search into futurity. Those whose announcements prove more generally correct are accounted
the most perfect masters of their art, and consequently
held in the highest honour. When any one projects
a great work, a long journey for commercial purposes,
or any other undertaking, the probable success of which
he is desirous to learn, he goes to one of these astrologers, informs him of the time at which he intends to set
out, and inquires what aspect the heavens then exhibit.
The astrologer replies, that before he can answer, he
must be informed of the year, month, and hour of his
nativity, on learning which he examines how the constellation that was then in the ascendant corresponds
with the aspect of the celestial bodies at the time of the
‘inquiry. Upon this comparison he founds his prediction as to the favourable or unfavourable issue of the
enterprise.

The Tartars compute time by a cycle of twelve years,
the first of which they name the lion ; the second, the
ox; the third, the dragon ; the fourth, the dog; and so
on till all the twelve have elapsed. When any one,therefore, is asked the year in which he was born, he
answers, it was in that of the lion, on such a day, and
at such an hour and minute; all of which had been carefully noted in a book. When the years of the cycle are
completed, they begin again with the first, and constantly go over the same round.

XXXIII.—Religion and Customs of the Tartars (Chinese).

These people are idolaters, and each person has, for
the object of worship, a tablet fixed against an elevated part of the wall of his apartment, having a name
written on it which denotes the high, heavenly, and
mighty God, and this they daily worship, burning incense before it. Raising their hands, and beating their
faces three times against the floor, they entreat from
him the blessings of sound understanding and bodily
health, addressing no other petition. Below, on the
floor, they have a statue named Natigai, considered as
the god of terrestrial objects, or of whatever is produced
on the earth. They suppose him to have a wife and
children, and worship him in the same manner with
incense, lifting their hands, and bending to the ground.
They pray to him for good weather, plentiful crops,
increase of family, and other such objects, They believe
the soul to be so far immortal, that immediately after
death it enters another body, and according as a man’s
actions in this life have been virtuous or wicked, his
future state will be progressively more or less fortunate.
If he has been poor, yet acted worthily and respectably,
he will be born anew, first of a lady, becoming himeelf a
gentleman ; then of a woman of rank, becoming a nobleman, and he will continually ascend in the scale of
existence till he becomes united with the divinity. Onthe contrary, if a gentleman’s son have acted unworthily,
he will, at his next birth, become a clown, and at length
a dog ; descending always to a condition more vile than
the former.

They converse courteously, accosting each other with
politeness and with countenances expressive of pleasure ; they have a well-bred air, and a manner of eating
particularly cleanly. The utmost reverence is shown to
parents ; and should any child treat his with disrespect,
or neglect to assist them, there is a public tribunal having for its especial object to punish the crime of -filial
ingratitude. Malefactors, when found guilty, after being
apprehended and thrown into prison, are strangled ;
but such as remain till the expiry of three years, a
time appointed by his majesty for a general release, are
set at liberty, having however a brand fixed on one of
the cheeks, by which they may be recognised.

The great khan has prohibited all gambling and other
species of fraud, to which this people are addicted beyond any other upon earth; and as a reason for this
prohibition, he tells them in his edict, “ I subdued you
by the power of my sword, and consequently whatever
you possess belongs of right to me; in gambling, therefore, you sport with my property.” Yet he does not, by
the right thus claimed, take any thing on an arbitrary
principle. The orderly and regular manner in which all
ranks present themselves before him deserves notice.
On approaching within half a mile of his residence,
they testify their reverence for his exalted rank by an
humble, subdued, and quiet demeanour, so that not
the least noise is heard, nor does any one call, or even
speak aloud. Every man of rank carries with him,
while he continues in the hall of audience, a vessel into
which he spits, that he may not soil the floor; and having done so, he replaces the cover, and makes a bow.
They usually take with them handsome buskins of white
leather, and on reaching the court, before entering the
hall, where they wait to be summoned by his majesty,
put them on, giving those worn in walking to the care
of the servants. This precaution is taken that they may
not sully the beautiful carpets, curiously wrought with
silk and gold, and exhibiting a variety of colours.

XXXIV.—Marco Polo’s Journey—The River Pulisangan and its beautiful Bridge.

T have now to inform you that the great khan having
sent Messer Marco as his ambassador into the western
provinces, he departed from Kambalu, and travelled
in that direction full four months. You shall now
hear all that he saw on that journey going and returning. When a man leaves Kambalu and has gone ten
miles, he finds a river called Pulisangan, which flows
on to the ocean, and is crossed by many merchants with
their goods, Over it is a grand stone bridge, which
has not its equal in the world ; it is 300 paces long and
eight broad, and ten horsemen can ride abreast over it.
It has twenty-four arches, supported by piers in the
water, and is wholly of marble, finely wrought into
columns in the manner that I will tell you. At the
head of the bridge is a column of marble, above and beneath which are beautifully carved lions of the same material, and about a pace distant is another column, with its lions, and between the two are slabs of gray marble,
to secure passengers from falling into the water ; and the
whole bridge thus formed is the most magnificent object
in the world.

XXXV.—The great City of Geo-gui.

After leaving that bridge a man travels thirty miles
westward, finding every where fine trees, villages, and
inns, and then comes to a city which is named Geo-gui.
The country is rich in grain, the people are all idolaters ;
they live by merchandise and the arts, making cloth of
gold, as well as silk, and beautiful linen. There are also
numerous houses for the reception of strangers. A mile
beyond that city are two roads, one leading westward
through Cathay, the other southward to the great province of Manji. In riding westward through Cathay
full ten days,t+ you find always handsome cities and castles, abundance of arts and merchandise, fine inns, trees,
vines, and a civilized people.

XXXVI.—The Cities of Ta-in-fu and Pi-an-fa.

At the end of this journey is a kingdom named Tain-fu,t with a capital of the same name. It contains
many arts and much merchandise, with a large supply
of stores necessary for the imperial army. The district
presents numerous vineyards, and being the only part of
Cathay where wine is made, supplies it to the surrounding provinces. It yields also much silk, abounding in
the trees on which the worms are fed. A degree of civilisation prevails among all the people of this country, in
consequence of their frequent intercourse with the numerous towns which lie very near each other. The merchants are constantly carrying their goods from one to another, as fairs are successively held at each. Five
days’ journey beyond the ten already mentioned, there
is said to be another city still larger and handsomer,
named Achbaluch, where are the limits of his majesty’s
hunting-ground, within which no person must sport,
except princes of his family, and others whose names are
inscribed on the grand falconer’s list ; beyond, all persons qualified by their rank have that liberty. The khan
scarcely ever follows the chase in this quarter; hence
the wild animals, especially hares, multiply to such a
degree, as to cause the destruction of all the growing
corn. This having come to his knowledge, he was induced to repair thither with his whole court, and prodigious quantities of game were then taken.Leaving
Ta-in-fu, and riding westward full seven days through
very fine districts, amid numerous merchants, you find
a large town, named Pi-an-fu,t supported by commerce
and the silk manufacture.

XXXVII.—The Castle of Caya-fu—Story of its King and Prester John.

Two miles west of Pi-an-fu is a famous castle, named
Caya-fu,t built anciently by a king named Dor. In
this castle is a very beautiful palace, with a great hall,
containing portraits, beautifully painted, of all the kings who formerly reigned in these provinces. Having mentioned this King Dor, I will tell you a curious story
of what passed between him and Prester John. The
two sovereigns being at war, Dor was in so strong a situation that the other could not reach him, and was therefore much chagrined ; upon which seven of his servants
said that they would bring before him his adversary,
and if he wished even alive. He said he should be
very much obliged to them. Having obtained this permission, they went to the king and presented themselves
as strangers desirous to serve him. He gave them an
honourable welcome, and they began their duties with
the utmost zeal, rendering themselves extremely acceptable. After they had remained two years, he became
greatly attached to them, and confided in their love
as if they had been his sons. Now hear what these
wicked fellows did, and how difficult it is to find defence against a traitor. The king happened to go out
on an excursion with a small number of persons, among
whom were these seven. When they had passed a river
distant from the palace, seeing that the king had not
attendants enough to defend him, they laid hands on
him, drew their swords, and threatened to kill him
unless he instantly went along with them. He was
greatly surprised, and said to them,—What mean
you by this, my sons !—what are you saying—whither
do you wish me to go!” They replied :—“ We wish
you to come with us to Prester John, who is our
master.” When Dor heard this, he almost died with
grief, and said—“ ha! my good friends, have I not
honoured and treated you as children; why will you
betray me into the hands of my enemy! This would
be a most wicked and disloyal action.” They replied
that it must be so. They led him to their sovereign, who
rejoiced greatly, and addressed the king in very rough
language. He made no reply, not knowing what to
answer; upon which, the other set him to keep his
cattle, as a mark of disgrace and contempt, and during
two years he performed this menial office. After that time Prester John was appeased, and resolved to spare
his captive. He bestowed on him splendid regal vestments, paying him great honour, and saying,— Now
own you were not a man capable of making war against
me.”’ The king then replied,—“ Sire, I always knew
that I was unable to contend with you; I repent much
of my former bad conduct, and promise faithfully that
I will always be your friend.” Then said the christian prince,— I will impose upon you no more hardship and grief; you shall receive favour and honour.”
Having then supplied him with many horses handsomely equipped, and a numerous attendance, he permitted him to go. Dor then returned to his kingdom,
and from that time was a faithful friend and servant of
Prester John.

XXXVIII.—The great River Kara-moran, and the City Ca-cian-fu.

Twenty miles westward from that castle is a river
called Kara-moran,t so large and broad that it cannot be
crossed by a bridge, and flows on even to the ocean. On
its banks are many cities and castles, likewise many merchants and manufactured goods; and in the country
around ginger grows in great abundance. The number
of birds is wonderful, so that for a Venetian grosso one can
buy three pheasants ; and after travelling three days, you find a noble city named Ca-cian-fu.The people are
idolaters, as likewise those of Cathay. It is a city of
great merchandise and many arts. They have abundance of silk, with cloth of gold of all fashions. I will
go on to tell you of the capital of the kingdom.

XXXIX.—The City of Quen-gian-fu.

When a man has left the city of Ca-cian-fu, and travelled eight days westward, he finds always cities and
castles, merchandise and arts, pleasure-grounds and
houses; and the whole country is full of mulberries,
producing abundance of silk. The men are idolaters
and live by labouring the ground, hunting, and hawking.
At the end of the eight days he comes to the noble city
of Quen-gian-fu,t capital of a kingdom anciently magnificent and powerful, and which had many noble and valiant
kings. At present the crown is held by Mangalu, a son
of the greatkhan. That city is rich in merchandise and
manufactures, particularly of implements for the supply
of an army; likewise every thing necessary for the subsistence of man. The people are all idolaters. Westward isa beautiful palace of King Mangalu, which I will
describe to you. It lies ina great plain watered by a
river, as also by many lakes and fountains. A wall five
miles in circuit, surrounded with battlements, and well
built, encloses this splendid edifice, having halls and
chambers adorned with beaten gold. Mangalu exercises
his dominion with great justice, and is much beloved
by his people ; the residents in the district enjoy great
amusement in hawking and hunting.

XL.—The Province of Cun-chin.

A man departing from this palace travels three days
west ward through a very fine plain, always finding villages and castles, with men living by merchandise and
rearing silk in great abundance. He then comes to
great mountains and valleys belonging to the province
of Cun-chin ;t the people are all idolaters, and subsist by agriculture and hunting, having many forests
full of various wild animals. Thus a man rides for
twenty days through mountains, valleys, and woods,
always finding cities, castles, and good inns.

XLI.—The Province of Achalech-Manji.

After this journey, he enters a province named Achalech-Manji, entirely level, and full of cities and castles.
The people are all idolaters, and live by merchandise
and art, and the province yields such a quantity of
ginger, that it is distributed throughout Cathay,
to the great profit of the inhabitants. The land also
yields rice, wheat, and other grain, and is rich in all
productions. The principal country is called AchalechManji, which means in our language one of the borders
of Manji. This plain lasts for two days, and we then
travel twenty through mountains, valleys, and woods,
seeing many cities and castles. These people are idolaters, and live on the fruits of the earth and the flesh of birds and beasts; for there are abundance of lions,
bears, wolves, stags, deer, and particularly of those animals which yield the musk.

XLII.—The Province and City of Sin-din-fu.

When a man has left this country and travelled twenty
days westward, he approaches a province on the borders
of Manji named Sin-din-fu. The capital, bearing the
same name, was anciently very great and noble, governed
by a mighty and wealthy sovereign. He died, leaving
three sons, who divided the city into three parts, and each
enclosed his portion with a wall, which was within the
great wall of twenty miles in circuit. They ranked
still as kings, and had ample possessions ; but the great
khan overcame them, and took full possession of their
territory. Through the city, a large river of fresh
water, abounding with fish, passes and flows on to the
ocean, distant eighty or a hundred days’ journey ; it is
called Quian-su. On that current is a very great number
of cities and castles, and such a multitude of ships,
as no one who has not seen could possibly believe.
Equally wonderful is the quantity of merchandise conveyed ; indeed it is so broad as to appear a sea and not
a river. Within the city, it is crossed by a bridge,
wholly of marble, half a mile long and eight paces
broad ; the upper part is supported by marble columns,
and richly painted ; and upon it are many houses where
merchants expose goods for sale ; but these are set up in
the morning and taken down in the evening. At one of
them, larger than the others, stands the chamberlain of
the khan, who receives the duty on the merchandise
sold, which is worth annually a thousand golden bezants.

The inhabitants are all idolaters ; and from that city a
man goes five days’ journey through castles, villages,
and scattered houses. The people subsist by agriculture,
and the tract abounds with wild beasts. There are also
large manufactures of gauzes and cloth of gold. After
travelling these five days, he comes to Thibet.

XLIII.—The Province of Thibet.

This is a very large province; the men have a language of their own, and are idolaters. They border
upon Manji and many other countries, and are very
great robbers ; the extent is such, that it contains eight
kingdoms and many cities and castles. There are also
extensive rivers, lakes, and mountains, where is found
a vast quantity of gold. Cinnamon and coral occur,
which last is very dear, because they place it round the
neck of their women and their idols, and hold it asa
precious jewel. Here are made camlets, and other cloths
of silk and gold. There are very skilful enchanters and
astrologers, but extremely wicked men, who perform
works of the devil, which it were unlawful to relate, they
would strike with such amazement. They have mastiff
dogs as largeas asses, and excellent in taking wild animals.
This province was entirely destroyed by Mangou, the
fifth great khan, in his wars; and its many villages
and castles are all demolished.Here grow large canes,
fifteen paces long and four palms thick, while from one
knot to the other is full three palms. The merchants and
travellers, who pass through that country in the night,
take these canes and set them on fire, when they make
such a loud crackling noise that lions, bears, and other
destructive animals are terrified, and dare not approach.
They also split them in the middle, and produce thus
so mighty a sound, that it would be heard in the
night at the distance of five miles ; and the explosion is
so alarming, that horses unaccustomed to it often break
their reins and harness, and take to flight. For this
reason, travellers, riding such horses, bind them by the
feet, and stop their eyes and ears.A man travels
twenty days through these countries without finding
either inns or victuals; he must therefore carry with
him food for himself and his cattle during the whole of
that space, meeting always, too, ferocious wild beasts,
which are very dangerous.

XLIV.—Another Part of Thibet.

The traveller then comes to a part of Thibet where
there are houses and castles; but the people have a
bad custom. None of them for the whole world will
marry a virtuous maiden, saying that she is worth nothing without having had many lovers. When strangers,
therefore, pass through, and have pitched their tents, or
taken their lodging in inns, the old women bring their
daughters, often to the number of thirty or forty, and
offer them as wives during their stay ; but they must
not carry them thence, either back or forward. When
the merchant is about to depart, he gives to the lady
some toy or jewel as a testimony that she has lived
with him. These jewels she hangs to her neck, and is
anxious to have at least twenty ; for the more she can
show, the higher is she valued, and the more readily
obtains a husband. After being married, she is strictly
watched, and any infidelity is deeply resented. These
people are idolatrous and wicked, not holding it sinful
to commit wrong and robbery ; in short, they are the
greatest thieves in the world. They live on the fruits
of the earth, but mostly by hunting and falconry ; and
the country contains many of those animals which produce musk, and are called in the Tartar language gudderi.
That sinful people have many good dogs,which they
employ in the pursuit of wild animals. They have
neither the cards nor money circulated by the great
khan, but make money of salt. They are poorly clad
with the skins of beasts, canvass, and buckram ; they
have a language of their own, which they call Tebet.
Now I will tell you of Kain-du.

XLV.—The Province of Kain-du.

This is a province lying to the west, having only
one king, the inhabitants idolaters, and subject to the
great khan. It contains a number of cities and castles,
with a lake, in which are found many pearls; but
the monarch forbids them, under a severe penalty, to
be removed except for his own use ; because, if any
one were allowed to take them, they would become
worth almost nothing. There is also a mountain,
whence are quarried turquoise stones in great abundance, very large and beautiful ; but he does not allow
them to be removed unless by his mandate. In this
province they have a strange and base custom, that a
man thinks there is no disgrace in an improper intimacy
between his wife or sister and a stranger or other person. On the contrary, when such a one comes to reside
in his house, the master presently goes out, and leaves
him with his wife. The visiter remains often three
days, and places a hat or something else at the window
as a signal; and the husband never returns till he sees
this taken away. This is said to be done in honour of
their'idols, who on that account bestow on them many
blessings. Their gold is in small rods,—the value being
determined according to the weight, and not marked by
any stamp. The small money is thus made: they take
salt, form it into a shape, so that it weighs about halfa
pound, and eighty of these are worth a rod of gold. They
have a very great number of the animals which yield
the musk ; likewise fishes from the same lake whence
the pearls are drawn ; also the usual kinds of wild birds
and beasts. No wine is obtained from vines, but it is made
from grain or rice with many spices, which makes a good
liquor. In that province also growsa tree called garofol;
it is small, with leaves like a laurel, but longer and
narrower ; it bears a small white flower.It yields
ginger, cinnamon, and other spices, which come into
our country ; but I have now said to you enough of
Kain-du. After travelling ten days you come toa river
which bounds it, named Brius. In it is found a great
quantity of gold dust ; and on its banks abundance of cinnamon ; it flows on to the ocean. Now let us tell you
of Caraian.

XLVI.—The Province of Caraian.

When a man has departed and crossed the river, he
enters this province, which is large, and contains seven
kingdoms extending westward. The people are all
idolaters, and under the dominion of the great khan.
The king is a son of his, named Essetemur, and is great,
rich, and powerful. He is also brave and upright,
ruling his country with much justice.When the traveller has crossed the river, he passes, during a journey of
five days, through a country where there is abundance
of cities and castles, with many very good horses ; and the
people are supported by cattle and the produce of land.
Their language is extremely difficult to understand. At
the end of these five days, he comes to the capital of the
country, named Yaci,t which is particularly great and noble, with many merchants and numerous arts. There
are here various sects, Saracens, idolaters, and Nestorian
Christians. There is a good deal of grain and rice, yet
the country is not very fertile. They make a drink of the
latter which intoxicates like wine. Money is formed
of porcelain, such as is found in the sea,and eighty
pieces are worth one bar of gold, or eight of silver. They
have pits whence they draw vast quantities of salt,
from which the king derives a great revenue.t Adultery
is not considered as a crime, unless when accompanied
with violence. There isa lake here extending a hundred
miles, and containing many large fishes, the best in the
world. They use the raw flesh of all fowls and beasts ;
for the poor people go to the market and get it newly
taken from the animal, put it in garlic sauce, then eat
it; the rich likewise eat it raw, but previously cut into
small pieces, and the sauce mixed with good spices.

XLVII.—The Province of Karazan and its great Serpents.

When a man leaves Yaci, or Chiaci, and goes ten
days westward, he finds the province of Karazan,
with a capital of the same name. The people are
all idolaters, and subject to the great khan; the king
is a son of that monarch, named Kogatin. Gold dust
is found in the river, and on the mountains in large
pieces so abundantly that a bar is given for six of silver.
The porcelain, too, formerly described circulates for
money, but is procured from India, Here are snakes
and serpents so huge as to strike all men with astonishment; they are ten paces long, ten palms broad, and
have no feet, but only a hoof like that of the lion; the
nose is like a loaf of bread, the mouth so huge that it
would swallow at once a man whole; the teeth are
immense, nor is there any wild beast whom they do not
strike with terror. There are smaller ones eight paces
long and six palms broad. The mode of catching them
is this :—They remain during the day in great caverns
under the earth, to avoid the heat, but at night go out
to feed, and seize all the animals whom they can reach;
they also seek drink at the rivers, fountains, and lakes, and
then make a deep track in the sand, as if a barrel had
been dragged through it. In it the people fix a stake,
fasten to it a steel instrument sharpened like a razor,
and cover it over with sand. When the serpent comes
through the track, and strikes against the steel, he
is pierced with such violence, that his body is divided
from one side to the other, as high as the umbilical cord,
and he presently dies. They then take the body and
extract the gall-bladder, which they sell very dear,
being an excellent medicine for the bite of a mad dog,
when administered in small dozes. It is also valuable in
childbirth, and when given to the woman, a safe delivery
immmediately follows. The flesh also is sold at a high
price, being considered delicate food.The serpent also
enters the dens of lions, bears, and other fierce animals,
and devours their whelps, when he can get at them.
Here, too, are very large horses, which are carried
into India to be sold. They cut two or three nerves
from the tail, so that they may not strike with it the
man who rides, which is considered disgraceful. These
people ride like the French, with long staffs, have arms
covered with buffalo hide, and carry lances, spears,
and poisoned arrows. Before the great khan conquered
them they had a wicked custom, that when any stranger
came to lodge with them who was agreeable, wise, and
opulent, they killed him during the night by poison
or some other mode. This was not out of enmity or
with the view of taking his money, but because they
imagined that his wisdom and other good qualities would
thus remain with them. However, about thirty-five
years ago, after that monarch conquered the country, he
prohibited this crime, which, from fear of him, they no
longer commit. Now let us tell of another province
called Kardandan.

XLVIII.—The Province of Kardandan.

When a man departs from Karazan, and travels to
the westward, he enters a province named Kardandan,
inhabited by idolaters, and subject to the great khan.
The chief city is called Vociam. All the people have their
teeth, both upper and lower, covered with gold, which
thus appear to be made of that metal.The men are
soldiers, and regard nothing but war; the women, with the
slaves, perform all the work. When any lady has been
delivered of a boy, the husband goes to bed, taking the
child with him, and remains there forty days. He thus
allows rest to the mother, who is only obliged to suckle
the infant. All his friends then come and make a festival,
when the wife rises, manages the domestic affairs, and
serves her husband, still lying in hed. They eat all
kinds of flesh, both raw and cooked, and rice dressed
along with it, and make a very good wine of rice and
spices. They have money of gold and porcelain, and give
a bar of gold for five of silver, having no mines of the
latter metal within five days’ distance ; by this exchange
the merchants make great profit. This people have neither
idols nor churches, but adore the master of the house, and
say of him, “we are his; and he is our god.” They
have neither letters nor writing, which is not wonderful,
because they live in an unfrequented place, that cannot
be visited in the summer on account of the air, which is
then so corrupted and pestilent that no foreigner can
live there. Whenever they have dealings together,
they select a piece of timber, square or round, cleave
it in the middle, and each takes a half; this must be
done before two, three, or four witnesses. When the
payment comes to be made, the one receives the money
and gives his half of the wood.In all those provinces there is no physician, but when any one is sick,
doctors and exorcists of evil spirits are sent for, who,
on coming to the patient, begin their incantations, beating instruments, singing and dancing. Ina short time
one of them falls to the ground, foams at the mouth, and
becomes half-dead, when the devil enters into his body.
The other magicians then ask the half-dead man what
is the cause of the patient’s illness. The demon answers
from his mouth that the sufferer has given displeasure
to such or such a spirit, who is therefore tormenting
him. They then say, “ we beseech you to pardon
him, and take in compensation for his blood the presents which we now exhibit,” Then if the sick man
is to die, the fiend in the body of the magician says,
— the spirit has been wronged and displeased to such
a degree, that he will not spare him for any thing in
the world.” If on the contrary a cure is to take place,
the devil from the body says, “ take so many sheep
and so many dishes of rich pottage, and make a sacrifice
of them to the angry spirit.” The relations of the
patient do every thing thus ordered, killing the sheep,
sprinkling the blood, and preparing the dishes of pottage.
A great assemblage is made of men and women, who
hold a joyous feast, dancing and singing songs in praise
of the spirit. They burn incense and myrrh, with
which they fumigate and illuminate the whole house.
When they have acted thus for about an hour, the first
magician again falls down, and they inquire if the sick
man is now pardoned and will be cured. It is then answered that he is not yet pardoned, but something more
must be done, after which forgiveness will be granted.
This order is obeyed, when he says, “ he is pardoned,
and will be immediately cured.” The company then
exclaim, “ the spirit is on our side,” and having eaten
the sheep and drunk the pottage with great joy and festivity, they return to their homes.

XLIX.—Of the great Battle fought between the Tartars and
the King of Mien.

Now I must mention a very great battle which
was fought in the kingdom of Vociam, and you shall
hear all how it happened. In the year of our Lord 1272,
the great khan sent a mighty captain, named Nescardin,
with 12,000 men, to defend the province of Caraian.
He was a prudent man, very strong in arms and skilful
in war ; and the soldiers with him were good and very
brave warriors. Now the King of Mien and of Bangalat were afraid lest he should invade their territory ;
yet they thought they were able to overcome and destroy the whole army in such a manner that the
great khan might never feel inclined to send another
into the same quarter. They assembled, therefore, 60,000
horse and foot, with 2000 elephants, each of which had
on its back a castle well fortified and defended by
twelve, fourteen, or sixteen men. The King of Mien
came with the above army to the city of Vociam, where
was the array of the Tartars, and took post in a plain
at the distance of three days’ journey. Nescardin was
somewhat alarmed, considering how small a force he had
in comparison with the host of the King of Mien; but
he took courage, reflecting that his troops were brave
and most valiant warriors. He therefore marched to
meet them in the plain of Vociam, and pitched his camp
near a great forest, filled with lofty trees, into which he
was aware that elephants could not enter. The King
of Mien, seeing the army of Nescardin, advanced to attack
it. The Tartars went with great boldness to meet
them, but when their horses saw the elephants with
the wooden castles upon them, stationed and arranged
in the first line, they were struck with such terror that
the riders could not, either by force or any contrivance,
make them approach. They, therefore, immediately
alighted, and tied them to the trees, when the infantry returned to the line of elephants, and began to
discharge their arrows with the utmost violence. Those
who were on the backs of the animals fought bravely;
but the Tartars were stronger, and more accustomed to
battle. They wounded very severely with these missiles
a multitude of the elephants, which, being terrified, took
to flight and rushed with violence into the adjacent
wood. As they could not be restrained from entering,
and rushing backward and forward through the thick
trees in confusion, they broke the wooden castles on
their backs, and destroyed all their equipments. When
the Tartars saw these animals disposed of, they ran to
their horses, which were bound to the trees, mounted
them, and rushed upon the warriors of the King of
Mien. They began the attack with a shower of arrows,
but as the king and his troops still defended themselves
valiantly, they drew their swords, and rushed into close
combat. Now mighty blows were struck ; swords and
spears were fiercely thrust on both sides ; heads, arms,
and hands were struck off ; and many warriors fell to the
earth dead and dying. The noise and cries would have
drowned the loudest thunder. At length, after midday, the host of Mien gave way; and the king, with all
who survived the battle, took to flight, pursued by
the Tartars, who killed many of the fugitives.When
satisfied with pursuit, they returned to the wood to
catch the elephants. They endeavoured to stop the flight
of these animals by cutting down the trees and laying
them across; yet they are so intelligent, that the
soldiers would not have succeeded but for the aid of
some of the captives taken in battle, through whose
means they were able to recover two hundred. From
this time the great khan began to employ elephants in
his army, which he had not hitherto done. Afterwards
that monarch conquered the lands of Mien, and added
them to his dominion.

L.—Of the great Descent.

When you have departed from the said province
of Curaian, there begins a great descent, which continues
for two days and a half;t and in all this journey
nothing occurs worthy of notice, except that there
is a great space in which a market is held on certain
days of the year. Thither come many merchants
from divers countries and districts, some of whom bring
gold and silver to exchange ; and they give an ounce of
the former for five of the latter. None but those who
bring the gold can penetrate into the countries where it
is produced, so difficult and intricate are the roads,
‘When a man has travelled these two days and a half,
he comes to a district which is called Anniz, on the
borders of India, towards the south, and then he goes
for fifteen days through a region covered with woods
filled with elephants, unicorns, and other savage beasts,
but not containing any human habitation.

LI.—Of the City of Mien, and the most beautiful Tomb of the the King.

At the termination of these wild and pathless tracts is
a large and noble city called Mien, the capital of the province. The people are all idolaters, with a language
peculiar to themselves, and are subject to the great khan.
About this city I will tell you a thing very remarkable.
There was anciently in it a rich and powerful king,
who, being about to die, commanded that on his tomb
should be erected two towers, one of gold, and the other
of silver. They are full ten paces high, and of a suitable
thickness ; the first, being composed of stone, is covered all
over with gold to the thickness of a finger, so that to the
spectator it appears wholly of that metal. The summit is
round, and filled with little golden bells, which the wind,
whenever it strikes them, causes to ring. The other
tower is similarly formed, but is coated with silver, and
has silver bells. By these buildings the king intentled to
display his greatness and dignity, and they are the most
beautiful and valuable to be seen in the world. Between
them he caused the sepulchre to be constructed, where he
is now buried. When the great khan conquered that
city, he desired all the players and buffoons, of whom
there were a great number in his court, to go and achieve
the conquest, offering them a captain and some warlike
aid.The jesters willingly undertook the affair, and setting out with the proffered assistance, subdued this province of Mien. When they came to that noble city, and
saw these splendid edifices, they admired exceedingly, and
sent to the great khan an account of their beauty, and of
the manner in which they were constructed, asking if he
wished them to be demolished, and the gold and silver
sent tohim. The monarch, on hearing this, commanded
that they should not be destroyed, since the king had
erected them to commemorate his greatness, and no
Tartar touches any thing belonging to a dead man.
They were therefore to continue in the same condition
as they now stood. This province contains elephants,
wild oxen large and beautiful, stags, deer, and other
animals, Now, let me tell you of another which is called
Bangala.

LII.—Of the Province of Bangala.

This is a province towards the south, which, in
the year 1290, while I, Marco, was at the court of the
great khan, was not yet conquered, but the army: was
there, ready to march for that purpose. It has a king
and languages of its own, and the people are most wicked
idolaters. They are on the confines of India.The
barons and lords of that country have oxen as tall as
elephants, but not so weighty ; and live on flesh and rice.
They have great abundance of silk, with which they
carry on extensive manufactures ; also ginger, sugar, and
many other costly spices. This place is visited by numerous merchants, who purchase slaves, make them eunuchs,
and then either sell or convey them to other places.

LIII.—Of the Province of Kangigu.

Kangigut is a province towards the east, subject to
aking; the people are all idolaters; have a language
of their own ; and owning the supremacy of the great
khan, they pay him an annual tribute. The king is so
luxurious as to have 300 wives, for as soon as he hears
of a beautiful woman in the country he takes her to
himself. The people have much gold and many precious
spices ; but being far from the sea, their commodities do
not bring the full value. They have many elephants
and beasts of various other kinds. All the men and women paint their bodies, the colours being worked
in with the claws of lions, dragons, and eagles, and thus
never effaced. In this manner they stain their neck,
breast, hands, limbs, and indeed their whole person.
This is considered extremely genteel, and the more any
one is painted, the higher is his rank considered. Now
let us tell you of another province named Amu.

LIV.—Of the Province of Amu.

Amu is also a province towards the east, subject to
the great khan. The people are idolaters, live by pasturage and agriculture, and have a language of their
own. The ladies wear on their arms and legs valuable
bracelets of gold and silver, and the men have
these still finer and rarer. They have good horses in
considerable numbers, many of which the Indians purchase and sell again to much advantage. They have also
abundance of oxen and buffaloes, because they have extensive and good pastures; in short, they have plenty
of the means of subsistence. From Amu to Kangigu, are
fifteen days, and thence to Bangala, which is the third
province behind, are thirty days. Now let us come to
another province, which is called Tholoman, and lies eight
journeys from this to the east.

LV.—Of the Province of Tholoman.
Tholomant is a third province towards the east. All the
- people are idolaters, have a language of their own, and
are under the great khan. They are handsome, of rather
a brown complexion, good men at arms, and have a number of cities, castles, and forts, on the top of very high
mountains. When they die, the bodies are burned,
and the bones which cannot be consumed are placed
in chests and carried to the caverns of high mountains, where they are kept suspended, so that neither
man nor beast can touch them. Gold is found here ;
but the small money is of porcelain, which circulates in
all these provinces. The merchants, though few, are
rich ; the people live on flesh and rice, and have many
good spices.

LVI.—Of the Province of Cyn-gui and its Lions.

Cyn-gui isa province likewise situated towards the east,
and when a man leaves Tholoman, he goes twelve days
along a river, where there are towns and castles, but nothing else worth mentioning. At the end of these twelve
days, he finds the city Sinugul, very large and noble. The
inhabitants are all idolaters, and subject to the great
khan. They live by merchandise and arts, and weave
cloths of the bark of trees, which make fine summer
dresses. They are good men at arms ; but they have no
money except paper. There are in this country so
many lions, that if a man were to sleep out of doors,
he would presently be killed and eaten by them; and
at night, when a bark sails along the river, if it were
not kept at a good distance from the bank, they would
rush in and carry off the crew. However, though these
animals be so large and dangerous, the natives have
a wonderful manner of defending themselves; for the
dogs of that country are so daring, that they will assault
a large one, and, seconded by a man, will kill him. I
will tell you how: when a man is on horseback with
two of these dogs, as soon as they see a lion, they throw
themselves behind him, and bite his thighs and body.
The lion turns furiously round, but they wheel about
with him so swiftly, that he cannot reach them. He
then retreats till he comes to a tree, against which he
places his back, and turns his face to the dogs; but
they continue always biting him from behind, and making him turn round and round. Meantime the man
discharges arrows without ceasing, till the animal falls
down dead, and thus one man and two spirited dogs are
sufficient to kill a large lion. The inhabitants of this
province have a good deal of silk, and a great trade is
carried on to all quarters along the river.

LVII.—Arrival at Sin-din-fa, and Journey back to Gin-gui.

Continuing to journey on its banks for twelve days
more, we discover a number of cities and castles. The
people are idolaters, subject to the great khan, and use
paper money. Some are good at arms, others are merchants and artificers. At the end of the twelve days, the
traveller comes to Sin-din-fu,of which mention has
been made above. He then rides seventy days through
provinces and lands which we formerly went over, and
have already described. At the end of that period, he
comes to Gin-gui, where we formerly were.

LVIII.—Cities of Ca-cian-fu, Cian-glu, and Cian-gli.

From Gin-gui or Geo-gui a man travels four days,
finding a variety of cities and castles. The people are
great artificers and merchants, subject to the mighty
khan, and use papermoney. At the end of the four days
you come to Ca-cian-fu,a large and noble city, lying to
the south, in the province of Cathay. The inhabitants are
subject to the same monarch, are all idolaters, and burn
the bodies of their dead. They have a good supply of
silk, which they make into different kinds of cloth. A
large river flows past it, along which great abundance of
merchandiseisconveyed toKambalu, with whichit is made
to communicate by the digging of many canals. Now
let. us pass to another city called Cian-glu. The natives
are idolaters, subject to the khan, use paper money,
and burn the bodies of their dead. In that city, salt is
made very extensively, and I will tell you how. There
isa species of earth full of it, and they pile it up in heaps,
upon which they throw a great quantity of water, to saturate it with the mineral. They next boil it in large
cauldrons of iron, till it evaporates, and leaves a white
and minute salt, which is exported to all the countries
round.Five days’ journey from Cian-glu is Cian-gli, +
where are many cities and castles. It is a town of Ca~
thay, and the whole people are idolaters, subject to the
khan, and use paper money. Through the middle of
that territory flows a great river, on which is conveyed
much merchandise of various kinds.

LIX.—Condi-fu—Rebellion against the Great Khan.

In departing from Cian-gli, we come in six days to
Condi-fu,a great city, which the khan conquered by force
of arms, but still it is the noblest in the province.t
There is a wonderful abundance of silk, as well as orchards with many delicate fruits, and the situation is
delightful ; it has also under it fifteen other cities of
great importance and commerce, whence it derives
high honour and dignity. In the year 1273, the khan
gave to Litan, one of his barons, 70,000 horse to defend
and secure that city; but when the said baron had
remained some time in the country, he arranged with
certain men to betray it, and rebel against his lord.
‘When the khan knew this, he sent two of his commanders, Aguil and Mongatai, with many troops, against the
traitor. On their approach, the rebel went forth to meet.
them with his forces, consisting of a hundred thousand
cavalry and many infantry, both of the country and of
those he had brought with him ; and there wasa very
great battle between him and those two chiefs. Litan
was killed, with many others; and the khan caused all
those who had been guilty to be put to death, and spared
the lives of the rest.Now let us tell of another country named Sin-gui.

LX.—Cities of Sin-gui, Lin-gui, Pin-gui, and Cin-gui.
When a man has gone south from Condi-fu, he
finds cities and castles, many animals of the chase and
birds, with a vast abundance of all productions, and then
comes to Sin-gui,t which is noble, great, and beautiful,
with much merchandise and many arts; the whole
people are idolaters, subject to the khan, and use paper
money. They have a river which is of great utility,
because the people of the country have divided the stream
which comes from the south into two parts; one goes
eastward towards Manji, the other westward towards
Cathay ; and the land has thus a wonderful number of
ships, though not of large size, with which they convey
goods to other provinces, and bring thence an almost incredible quantity of merchandise. When a man departs
from Sin-gui and goes eight days to the south, he finds
many rich cities and castles. The peopleare idolaters,subject to the khan ; they burn the bodies of their dead, and
use paper money. At the end of eight days he arrives at
a town named Lin-gui,} great and noble, with men-at-arms, and also arts and merchandise. Here are wild animals and every kind of provision in abundance. When he departs from Lin-gui, he goes three days to the south,
finding cities and castles under the powerful khan ; the
people idolatrous, and burning the bodies of their dead.
There is much excellent hunting of birds and beasts. At
the end of these three days, he discovers a very good city
named Pin-gui.The people have all things necessary
for subsistence, raise much silk, and pay a large revenue
to the sovereign. A great quantity of merchandise is
laden here for the province of Manji. When a man has
departed from Pin-gui, and travelled two days with his
face to the south, through beautiful and rich countries,
he finds the city of Cin-gui,t very large, and full of merchandise and arts. The people are wholly idolatrous,
burn the bodies of their dead, their money is paper, and
they are under the khan. They have much grain and
grass. When a man leaves Cin-gui, he finds cities, villages, and castles, with handsome dogs and good pasturage ; the people being such as are above described.

LXI.—Of the great River Kara-moran.

At the end of two days a man finds the great river
called Kara-moran, coming from the lands of Prester
John. It is full, broad, and so deep that a large ship
can pass through its channel; and there are on it
full 15,000 vessels, all belonging to the khan, meant for
conveying his goods when he goes to the islands of
the sea, which is distant about a day’s journey. And
each of these ships requires fifteen mariners, and carries
fifteen horses with their riders, provisions, and every
thing else necessary for them.$ When a man passes
that river, he enters the province of Manji, and I will
tell you how it was conquered by the khan.

LXII.—Of the Province of Manji, and how it was made
subject to the Great Khan.

In the extensive province of Manji there was a lord and
king named Facfur, who, excepting the great khan, was
the mightiest sovereign in the world, the most powerful
in money and people ; but the men are not good at arms,
nor have horses trained to war, nor experience in battle
and military operations, otherwise they would never
have lost so strong a country. All the lands are surrounded by waters so deep that they cannot be passed
unless by bridges, and the chief cities are encompassed by
broad ditches filled with water. The khan, however, in
the year of our Lord 1273,sent one of his barons, Bayam
Cingsan, which means Bayam with the Hundred Eyes:
for the King of Manji had found out by astrology, that he
could lose his kingdom only by a man having a hundred
eyes. This Bayam marched with a very great force,
many ships, horse and foot, and came to the first city
of Manji, called Koi-gan-zu, which we will presently
describe. He called upon it to surrender ; but the people refused. He then went to another city, which also
refused, and so he passed five, leaving them behind,
because he knew that the khan was sending a large additional force. He took, however, the sixth by storm,
and then successively reduced other twelve ; after which
he marched direct to the capital of the kingdom, called
Kin-sai, where the king and queen resided. When the
monarch saw this great army, he was struck with such
terror that he fled from the continent with many of his
people, having 1000 ships, and sought refuge among the
islands. The queen, however, remained and defended
herself as well as she could against Bayam. But having
at length asked what was the name of that commander,
and being told it was Bayam with the Hundred Eyes, she
remembered the prophecy mentioned above, and immediately surrendered the city to him.Presently all
the cities of Manji yielded, and the whole world does not
contain such a kingdom, and I will now describe its
magnificence.

LXIII.—Of the Piety and Justice of the King towards his
Subjects.

This King Facfur maintained 15,000 poor children, because in that province many areexposed as soon as they are
born by parents who cannot support them; so, when a
rich man had no issue, he went to the king and got asmany
as he pleased. And when the boys and girls came of age,
the king married them together, and gave them the
means of living ; and thus were educated 20,000 males
or females annually. He did another thing : when he
went through any place and saw two fine houses, and by
the side of them a small one, he inquired why the first
were greater than the other ; and being told that it be
longed to a poor man, who could not afford to build one
larger, presently he gave him money enough to enable
him to do so, He made himself be served by more than
1000 domestic servants of both sexes. He maintained
his kingdom in such justice, that no evil was done, and all
commodities could be left unguarded except by the royal
equity. Now I have given you an account of the king ;
I will tell you of the queen. She was led to the great
khan, who made her be honoured and served asa powerful sovereign ; but the king, her husband, never came
out of the islands of the ocean, and died there, and thus
the whole kingdom remained with the khan.Now
let us tell of the province of Manji, and the manners
and customs of the people ; beginning with the city of
Koi-gan-zu.

LXIV.—Of the Cities of Koi-gan-zu, Pau-chym, and Chaym.

Koi-gan-zu is a great, rich, and noble city, at the
entrance of the province of Manji, lying to the south.
The whole people are subject to the khan; they are
idolaters, and burn the bodies of their dead. It lies
on the river Kara-moran, and hence is full of ships ;
for many merchants bring their commodities thither
to be distributed throughout other cities. It is the
capital of the province. Here is made a very great
quantity of salt, which is supplied thence to forty different
towns; the khan has a large revenue from this and
other trades here carried on.t And now let me tell
you of another city called Pau-chym.

‘When a man departs from Koi-gan-zu, he goes a whole
day along a causeway finely built of stone, and on each
side is a large water, so that it is impossible to enter the
province unless by this causeway. He then finds a
city called Pau-chym ;¢ all the people are idolaters, burn
the bodies of their dead, and are under the great khan.
They are artificers and merchants, have abundance of
silk, and make much cloth of it mixed with gold, and
thus earn a sufficient livelihood. Through all that country the paper money of the khan is circulated.

When a man sets out from Pau-chym, he travels aday
and discovers a very large city named Chaym.There is
great abundance of the necessaries of life ; fish beyond
measure, beasts and birds for sport in great numbers, so
that for a Venetian silver grosso you may purchase three
pheasants.

LXV.—Of the City of Tin-gui, and its great Saltworks.

Tin-gui is a pretty agreeable city, a full day’s journey
from Chaym. The people are idolaters, subject to the
khan, and use paper money ; they have merchandise
and arts, and numerous ships belonging to them. It
lies to the south-east, and on the left, nearly three
days’ journey to the eastward, is the ocean, where salt is
made in great quantities, Here is a city namedCyn-gui,
large, rich, and noble, to which all the salt is brought, and
the khan draws from it a revenue so wonderful that
it could not be believed.

LXVI.—Of the great City of Yan-gui.
When a man leaves Tin-gui he proceeds a day towards
the south-east,§ through a very fine country, finding
towns and castles, and then comes to Yan-gui,a large
and beautiful city, which has under it twenty-four, all
good and of great trade. Its affairs are administered by
one of the twelve barons of the khan ; Messer Marco
Polo, of whom this book treats, governed it three years.
Here are made many arms and other equipments for
knights and men of war ; for in this place and around it
numerous troops are quartered. I will now tell you of
two great provinces lying to the west, and as I shall
have much to say, I will begin with Nan-ghin.

LXVII.—Of the great City of Nan-ghin.

Nan-ghin is a province towards the west, belonging
to Manji, and is very noble and rich. The people are
idolaters, use paper money, and are subject to the great
khan. They live by merchandise and arts, have silk
in abundance, and make cloths of it interwoven with
gold, in all fashions. They have an ample supply of
every kind of grain and provisions ; for the land is very
fruitful. There are also lions and animals for hunting.
There are many rich merchants who carry on much
trade, and pay a large revenue to the great sire. But I
will now go to the noble city of Sa-yan-fu, respecting
which I shall have much to say.

LXVIII.—Of the City of Sa-yan-fu, and how it was taken.

Sa-yan-fu isa large and magnificent city, having under
it twelve others also great and noble; it is the seat
of many valuable arts and of much merchandize.	

The inhabitants are idolaters; they use paper money,
are subject to the khan, and burn the bodies of their
dead. This city held out three years after all the
rest of the province had yielded to the conqueror, who
besieged it with a mighty army ; but he could approach
it only on the side which lies to the north, because it was
elsewhere surrounded by a large and deep lake, by which
the besieged obtained abundance of provisions, The
army was therefore about to abandon the siege in much
grief and wrath, and this news was just brought to the
khan, when Messeri Nicolo, Maffio, and Marco Polo said,
—‘ we shall find a way by which the city shall be made
to surrender.” The monarch, who was most eagerly bent
on its capture, readily listened. Then said the two
brothers and their son Marco,—“ Great sire, we have
with us in our train men who will make such an engine
as will discharge large stones, which the citizens will not
be able to endure, and will be obliged.to yield.” The khan
was much rejoiced, and desired that they should execute
their plan as soon as possible. Now, they had in their company aGerman and a Nestorian Christian who were skilful
in such works, and made two or three machines sufficient
to throw stones of 300 pounds weight. When these
were conveyed to the army and set up, they appeared
to the Tartars the greatest wonder of the world. They
then began discharging stones into the city, which struck
the houses, broke and destroyed every thing, and caused
the utmost noise and alarm. When the inhabitants saw
a calamity such as they had never witnessed before, they
knew not what to think or say. They met in council,
and concluded that they must be all killed, unless they
submitted. They therefore intimated to the lord of the
host that they would surrender on the same terms that
others had done. This was agreed to, and Sa-yan-fu came
under the power of the great khan, through the interposition of Messeri Nicolo, Maffio, and Marco ; and it was not
a small service, for this town and province are among
the best in his possession, and he draws from them a
great revenue.Now, we shall leave this subject and
treat of a city called Sin-gui.

LXIX.—Of the City of Sin-gui and the River Kiang, and the
Multitude of Cities on that River.

When a man leaves Yan-gui and goes fifteen miles 
south-east, he perceives a certain city named Sin-gui,
which is not very extensive, but has great merchandise
and much shipping. The people are idolaters, use paper
money, and are subject to the khan. ‘That city stands
upon a river, named Kiang, which is the largest in the
world ; being in some places ten miles broad, and upwards of a hundred days’ journey in length. Through
it the inhabitants have a lucrative trade, which yields
a large revenue to the khan. And on account of the
many cities on it, the ships navigating and the goods
conveyed by means of it are more numerous and valuable
than in all the rivers of Christendom and the adjacent seas
beside. I tell you Ihave seen at that city no fewer than
5000 ships sailing at once on its stream. For that river
flows through sixteen provinces, and has more than two
hundred great towns on its banks, The ships are covered,
and have only one mast ; yet they are of heavy burden,
and carry each from 4000 to 12,000 cantars. They have
ropes composed of cane for drawing them through the
water ; those belonging to the larger vessels are thick,
and fifteen paces in length, being cloven at the end,
and bound together in such a way as to make a cord
300 paces long.

LXX.—Of the City of Cai-gui.

Cai-gui is a small city towards the south-east,situated
upon the bank of theabove-mentioned river ; allthe people
are idolaters, subject to the khan, and use paper money.
Here are collected large quantities of corn and rice ; and
there is a passage by water to the city of Kambalu and the
court of the khan; grain from this place forms a considerable part of the provision required by hiscourt. The
monarch made this communication by digging long
and deep canals from one river to another, and from
lake to lake, so that a large ship may pass through.
And by the side of this water-channel goes a road, so that you may take either the one or the other, as is most
convenient. In the middle of that river, opposite the
city, is an isle of rocks, on which is a monastery of idolaters, where there are 200 monks, who serve a very great
number of gods, Now, let us cross the river, and tell
of a city named Cin-ghian-fu.

LXXI.—Of the City of Cin-ghian-fu.

Cin-ghian-fu is a city of Manji, and the peaple are
such as we have already described, idolaters, and subjects
of the great khan. They are artificers, merchants, and
hunters, raise much grain, and make cloths of silk and
gold. Here are two churches of Nestorian Christians,
formed in the year 1278 ; which happened because at
that time the governor under the khan was a Nestorian,
named Marsarchis, and he caused these two edifices to
be built. Now, let us go to the great city of Cin-ghin-gui.

LXXII.—Of the City of Cin-ghin-gui, and of a dreadful
Slaughter.

When a man leaves Cin-ghian-fu, and travels three
or four days south-east, he always discovers cities and
castles, with much merchandise ; the people are all idolaters, subject to the khan, and use paper money. Then
he comes to the city of Cin-ghin-guit great and noble, the
people idolaters, and subject to the khan; they have
abundance of provisions, produce and manufacture a vast
quantity of silk. And here I will tell you a wicked
thing which the people of this city did, but it cost them
dear. When Bayam, called the chief of the Hundred
Eyes, conquered all the province, and took the capital
itself, he sent a body of troops to reduce this place. It
surrendered, and the soldiers entered and found such
good wine, that they drank till they were intoxicated,
and became quite insensible. When the men of the
city saw them in this condition, that very night they
slew them all, so that not one escaped. When Bayam
the commander heard of this disloyal conduct, he sent
an army who took the town, and put all the inhabitants
to the sword. Now, let us go on, and I will tell you
of another named Sin-gui.

LXXIII.—Of the City of Sin-gui, of Un-gui, and of Ughim.

Sin-gui is a very great and noble city. The people are
idolaters, subject to the great khan, and use paper
money. Most of them live by merchandise and arts,
raise much silk, make cloths of it interwoven with gold
very costly and fine. The townis forty miles in circuit,
and the number of inhabitants is so great, that no
person can count them, and if they were men-at-arms,
those of the province of Manji would conquer the whole
world; they are not so, however, but prudent merchants,
and, as already observed, skilful in all the arts. They
have also many persons learned in natural science, good
physicians, and able philosophers. The city has 1600
stone bridges under which a galley might pass; and in
the mountains adjacent grow rhubarb and ginger in
such abundance, that for a Venetian grosso you may
buy forty pounds of the latter, fresh and good. Sin-gui
has under it sixteen large cities of arts and trade. Its
name signifies the earth, and another large town near it
is called heaven, and these appellations they derive from
their great nobleness. Now, let us depart from this
place, and I will tell you of another city called Un-gui.t
It is a day’s journey from Sin-gui, and is large and good,
with merchandise and arts ; but there is nothing so remarkable about it as to be worth describing ; therefore
we shall go on to delineate another called Ughim.

It is great and rich; the men are idolaters, subject to
the great khan, use paper money, and have abundance
of all things. There is nothing else worth mentioning ;
therefore I will go on to tell you of the noble city of
Kin-sai, which is the capital of the kingdom of Manji.

LXXIV.—Of the most noble and wonderful City of Kin-sai and of its Population, Trades, Lake, Villas, and splendid Palace.

When a man leaves Ughim, and goes three days,
he observes many noble and rich cities and castles,
with great merchandise. The people are all. idolaters,
subject to the khan, use paper money, and have abundant means of subsistence. At the end of these three
days, he finds a very noble city named Kin-sai,which
means in our language the city of heaven. And
now I will tell you all its nobleness; for without
doubt it is the largest city in the world. And I will
give you the account which was written by the Queen
of Manji to Bayam, who conquered that kingdora,
to be transmitted to his master, who thereby might
be persuaded not to destroy it. And this letter contained
the truth, as I Marco saw with my own eyes.t It related, that the city of Kin-sai is 100 miles in circumference, and has 12,000 stone bridges; and beneath
the greater part of these a large ship might pass, and
beneath the others a smaller one. And you need not
wonder there are so many bridges; because the city
is wholly on the water, and surrounded by it like
Venice. It contains twelve arts or trades, and each
trade has 12,000 stations or houses; and in each station
there are of masters and labourers at least ten, in some
fifteen, thirty, and even forty, because this town supplies
many others round it. The merchants are so numerous and go rich, that their wealth can neither be told
nor believed. They, their ladies, and the heads of the
trades do nothing with their own hands, but live as
cleanly and delicately as if they were kings. These
females also are of angelic beauty, and live in the most
elegant manner. But it is established that no one can
practise any other art than that which his father followed,
even though he were worth 100,000 bezants. To the
south of that city is a lake, full thirty miles in circuit; and all around it are beautiful palaces and houses,
so wonderfully built that nothing can possibly surpass
them ; they belong to the great and noble. men of the
city. There are also abbeys and monasteries of idolaters
in great numbers. In the middle of the lake are two
islands, on one of which stands a palace, so wonderfully adorned that it seems worthy of belonging to the
emperor. Whoever wishes to celebrate a marriage or
other festival, goes thither, where he finds dishes, plates,
and all implements necessary for the occasion. The city
of Kin-sai contains many beautiful houses, and one
great stone tower, to which the pedple convey all their
property when the houses take fire, as often happens,
because many of them are of wood. They are idolaters, subject to the great khan, and use paper money.
They eat the flesh of dogs and other beasts, such as
no Christian would touch for the world, Qn each of
the said 12,000 bridges, ten men keep guard day and
night, so that no one may dare to raise a disturbance, or
commit theft or homicide. I will tell you another thing,
that in the middle of the city is a mound, on which stands
a tower, wherein is placed a wooden table, against which
a man strikes with a hammer, so that it is heard to a
great distance ; this he does when there. is an alarm of
fire, or any kind of danger or disturbance. The great khan causes that city to be most strongly guarded, because it is
the capital of all the province of Manji, and he derives
from it vast treasure and revenue ; he is likewise afraid
of any revolt. All the streets are paved with stones and
bricks ; and so are the high roads of Manji, on which
account men may travel very pleasantly either on horseback or on foot. In this city, too, are 4000 baths, in which
the citizens, both men and women, take great delight, and
frequently resort thither, because they keep their persons
very cleanly. They are the largest and most beautiful
baths in the world, insomuch that 100 of either sex
may bathe in them at once. Twenty-five miles from
thence is the ocean, between south and east ; and there
is a city named Gan-fu,which has a very fine port,
with large ships, and much merchandise of immense
value from India and other quarters. Past this city
to the port flows a stately river, by which the ships can
come up to it, and which runs thither from a great
distance. The khan has divided the whole province of
Manji into nine large kingdoms, all of which pay him
annual tribute. In Gan-fu resides one of the kings, who
has under him 140 cities. I will tell you a thing you
will much wonder at, that in this province there are
1200 towns, and in each a garrison amounting to 1000,
10,000, 20,000, and in some instances to 30,000 men. But
do not suppose these are all Tartar cavalry ; for part are
infantry and sent from Cathay. But the riches and profit
which the khan derives from the province of Manji
is so great that no mah could dare to mention it, nor
would any one believe him; and therefore I shall be
silent. 1 will tell you, however, some of the customs of
Manji. One is, that whenever a boy or girl is born, the
day, hour, and minute are written down, also the sign
and planet under which the birth takes place, so that
all may know their nativity. And when any one wishes to undertake a journey, or do any thing else of importance, he repairs to the astrologer, states these particulars, and asks if he should go or act otherwise. And they
are often thus diverted from their journeys and other designs ; for these astrologers are skilful in their arts and
diabolical enchantments, and tell them many things
which they implicitly believe, Another custom is, that
when a body is to be burned, all the relations dress themselves in canvass to express grief, and go with the corpse,
beating instruments, and making songs and prayers to their
idols. When they come to the place where the ceremony
is to be performed, they frame images of men, women,
camels, horses, clothes, money, and various other things,
all of cards. When the fire is fully lighted, they throw
in all these things, saying that the dead will enjoy them
in the other world, and that the honour now done to
him will be done there also by idols. In this city of
Kin-sai is a palace of the king who fled, which is the
noblest and most beautiful in the world. It is a square,
ten miles in circuit, surrounded by a lofty wall, within
which are gardens abounding in all the most delicate
fruits, fountains, and lakes supplied with many kinds
of fish. In the middle is the edifice itself, large and
beautiful, with a hall so extensive that a vast number
of persons can sit down at table. That hall is painted
all over with gold and azure, representing many stories,
in which are beasts, birds, knights, ladies, and various
wonders. Nothing can be seen upon the walls and roof
but these ornaments. There are twenty others of similar
dimensions, such that 10,000 men can conveniently sit at
table ; and they are covered and worked in gold very
nobly. This palace contains also 1000 chambers. In the
city are 160 toman of fires, that is, of houses ; and the
toman is 10,000, making 1,600,000 houses, among which are many great and rich palaces. There is only one 
church of Nestorian Christians. Each man of that city, 
as also of the others, has written on his door the name of 
his wife, his children, of his sons' wives, his slaves, and 
of all his household ; and when any one is horn, he adds 
the name, and when he dies, takes it away. Thus the 
governor of each city knows the names of every person 
in it ; and this practice is followed in all the towns of 
Manji and Cathay. The same account is given of the 
strangers who reside for a time in their houses, both when 
they come and when they go ; and by that means the 
great khan knows whoever arrives and departs, which 
is of great advantage.


LXXV.—Farther Particulars of that City.

There are within the city ten principal squares or
market-places,besides which, numberless shops run
along the streets. These squares are each half a mile
in length, and have in front the main street, forty
paces wide, and reaching in a straight line from one
end of the city to the other. Thus they are, altogether, two miles in circuit, and four miles distant from
each other. The street is crossed by many low and
convenient bridges. Parallel to it, but on the opposite
side to the squares, is a very large canal, and on its bank
capacious warehouses, built of stone, to accommodate the merchants from India and other countries, and receive
their goods; this situation being chosen as convenient
with regard to the market-squares. Each of these, on
three days in every week, contains an assemblage of from
40,000 to 50,000 persons, who bring for sale every desirable article of provision, There appears abundance of
all kinds of game, roebucks, stags, fallow-deer, hares, and
rabbits, with partridges, pheasants, francolins, quails,
common fowls, capons, ducks and geese almost innumerable ; these last being so easily bred on the lake, that for a
Venetian silver grosso you may buy a couple of geese and
two pairs of ducks. In the same place are also the
shambles, where cattle, as oxen, calves, kids, and lambs,
are killed for the tables of the rich and of magistrates.
These markets afford at all seasons a great variety of
herbs and fruits ; in particular, uncommonly large pears,
weighing each ten pounds,white in the inside like paste,
and very fragrant. The peaches also, both yellow and
white, are in their season of delicious flavour. Grapes
are not cultivated, but very good ones are brought dried
from other districts. Wine is not esteemed by the natives, who are accustomed to their own liquor, prepared
from rice and various spices. From the sea, twenty-five
miles distant, a vast supply of fish is conveyed on the
river; and the lake also contains abundance, the taking
of which affords constant employment tonumerous fishermen. The species vary according to the season, and the
offal carried thither from the city renders them large and
rich. In short, the quantity in the market is so immense,
that you would think it impossible it could find purchasers ; yet in a few hours it is all disposed of, s0 many
inhabitants are there who can afford to indulge in such
luxuries. They eat fish and flesh at one meal. Each
of the ten squares is surrounded with lofty dwellinghouses ; the lower part being made into shops, where
manufactures of every kind are carried on, and imported
articles are sold, as spices, drugs, toys, and pearls. In
some shops is kept only the country wine, which is constantly made fresh, and served out at a moderate price.
In the several streets connected with the squares are
numerous baths, attended by servants of both sexes, to
perform the functions of ablution for the male and feale visiters, who from their childhood are accustomed to
bathe in cold water, as being highly conducive to health.
Here, too, are apartments provided with warm water for
the use of strangers, who, from want of use, cannot endure the shock of the cold. All are in the daily habit
of washing their persons, especially before meals.

In other streets reside the females of bad character,
who are extremely numerous ; and not only in the streets
near the squares, which are specially appropriated to
them, but in every other quarter they appear, highly
dressed out and perfumed, in well furnished houses, and
with a train of domestics. They are perfectly skilled
in all the arts of seduction, which they can adapt to persons of every description ; so that strangers who have
once yielded to their fascination are said to be like men
bewitched, and can never get rid of the impression. Intoxicated with these unlawful pleasures, even after returning home, they always long to revisit the place
where they were thus seduced. In other streets reside
the physicians and the astrologers, who also teach reading
and writing, with many other arts. On opposite sides
of the squares are two large edifices, where officers appointed by his majesty promptly decide any differences
that arise between the foreign merchants and the inhabitants. They are bound also to take care that the guards
be duly stationed on the neighbouring bridges, and in
case of neglect, to inflict a discretionary punishment on
the delinquent.

On each side of the principal street, mentioned as
reaching across the whole city, are large houses and
mansions with gardens; near to which are the abodes
and shops of the working artisans. At all hours you
observe such multitudes of people passing backwards and forwards on their various avocations, that it might seem
impossible to supply them with food. A different judgment will, however, be formed, when every market-day
the squares are seen crowded with people, and covered
with provisions brought in for sale by carts and boats.
To give some idea of the quantity of meat, wine, spices,
and other articles brought for the consumption of the
people of Kin-sai, I shall instance the single article of
pepper. Marco Polo was informed by an officer employed in the customs, that the daily amount was forty-three
loads, each weighing 243 pounds.

The houses of the citizens are well built, and richly
adorned with carving, in which, as well as in painting
and ornamental buildings, they take great delight, and
lavish enormous sums. Their natural disposition is pacific, and the example of their former unwarlike kings
has accustomed them to live in tranquillity. They keep
no arms in their houses, and are unacquainted with their
use. Their mercantile transactions are conducted in a
manner perfectly upright and honourable. They also
behave in a friendly manner to each other, so that the
inhabitants of the same neighbourhood appear like one
family. In their domestic relations, they showno jealousy
or suspicion of their wives, but treat them with great respect. Any one would be held as infamous that should
address indecent expressions to married women. They
behave with cordiality to strangers who visit the city for
commercial purposes, hospitably entertain them, and
afford their best assistance in their business. On the
other hand, they hate the very sight of soldiers, even the
guards of the great khan; recollecting, that by their
means they have been deprived of the government of
their native sovereigns.

On the lake above mentioned are a number of pleasure-barges, capable of holding from ten to twenty persons, being from fifteen to twenty paces long, with a
broad level floor, and moving steadily through the water.
Those who delight in this amusement, and propose to
enjoy it, either with their ladies or companions, engage one of these barges, which they find always in the very
best order, with seats, tables, and every thing necessary
for an entertainment. The boatmen sit on a flat upper
deck, and with long poles reaching to the bottom of the
lake, not more than two fathoms deep, push along the
vessels to any desired spot. These cabins are painted
-in various colours, and with many figures; the exterior is similarly adorned. On each side are windows,
which can at pleasure be kept open or shut, when the
company seated at table. may delight their eyes with
the varied beauty of the passing scenes. Indeed, the
gratification derived from these water-excursions exceeds any that can be enjoyed on land; for as the lake
- extends all along the city, you discover, while standing in the boat, at a certain distance from the shore, all
its grandeur and beauty, palaces, temples, convents,
and gardens, while lofty trees reach down to the water’s
edge. At the same time are seen other boats continu‘ally passing, similarly filled with parties of pleasure.
Generally, indeed, the inhabitants, when they have
finished the labours of the day, or cloged their mercantile
transactions, think only of seeking amusement with their
wives or mistresses, either in these barges or driving
about the city in carriages. The main street already
mentioned is paved with stone and brick to the width
of ten paces on each side, the interval being filled up with
small gravel, and having arched drains to carry off the
water into the canals, so that it is always keptdry. On
this road the carriages are constantly driving. They are
long, covered at top, have curtains and cushions of silk,
and can hold six persons, Citizens of both sexes, desirous
of this amusement, hire them for that purpose, and you
see them at every hour moving about in vast numbers.
In many cases the people visit gardens, where they are
introduced by the managers of the place into shady arbours, and remain till the time of returning home.
The palace already mentioned had a wall with a
passage dividing the exterior court from an inner one,
which formed a kind of cloister, supporting a portico
that surrounded it, and led to various royal apartments.
Hence you entered a covered passage or corridor, six
paces wide, and so long as to: reacli to the margin of the
lake. On each side were corresponding entrances to
ten courts, also resembling cloisters with porticos, and
each having fifty private rooms, with gardens attached,—
the residence of a thousand young females, whom the
king maintained in his service. In the company either
of his queen or of a party of those ladies he used to seek
amusement on the lake, visiting the idol-temples on its
banks. The other two portions of this seraglio were
laid out in groves, pieces of water, beautiful orchards,
and enclosures for animals suited for the chase, as antelopes, deer, stags, hares, and rabbits. Here, too, the
king amused himself,—his damsels accompanying him
in carriages or on horseback. No man was allowed
to be of the party, but the females were skilled in
the art of coursing and pursuing the animals. When
fatigued they retired into the groves on the margin of
the lake, and, quitting their dresses, rushed into the
water, when they swam sportively in different directions,
—the king remaining a spectator of the exhibition.
Sometimes he had his repast provided beneath the
dense foliage of one of these groves, and was there
waited upon by the damsels, Thus he spent his time
in this enervating society, profoundly ignorant of mar-tial affairs ; hence the grand khan, as already mentioned,
was enabled to deprive him of his splendid possessions, and drive him with ignominy from his throne.
All these particulars were related to me by a rich
merchant of Kin-sai, who was then very old; and,
having been a confidential servant of King Facfur,
was acquainted with every circumstance of his life.
He knew the palace in its former splendour, and desired me to come and take a view of it. Being
then the residence of the khan’s viceroy, the colonnades were preserved entire, but the chambers had
been allowed to go to ruin,—only their foundations remaining visible. The walls, too, including the parks
and gardens, had been left to decay, and no longer contained any trees or animals.

LXXVI.—Revenues of the Great Khan from Kin-sai and
Manji.

I will now tell you of the large revenue which
the khan draws from this city, and the territory under its jurisdiction, which is the ninth part of the
province of Manji. The salt of that country yields
to him in the year eighty tomans of gold, and each
toman is 70,000 saiks, which amount to 5,600,000,
and each saik is worth more than a gold florin ; and is
not this most great and wonderful! In that country, too,
there grows more sugar than in the whole world besides,
and it yields a very large revenue. I will not state it
particularly, but remark that, taking all spices together,
they pay 3 1/2 per cent., which is levied too on all other
merchandise. Large taxes are also derived from wine,
rice, coal, and from the twelve arts, which, as already mentioned, have each twelve thousand stations.
On every thing a duty is imposed ; and on silk especially
and other articles is paid ten per cent. But I, Marco
Polo, tell you, because I have often heard the account of
it, that the revenue on all these commodities amounts
every year to 210 tomans, or 14,700,000 saiks, and that is
the most enormous amount of money that ever was heard
of, and yet is paid by only the ninth part of the province of Manji.Now let us depart from this city of
Kin-sai, and go to another called Tam-pin-gui.

LXXVII.—Tam-pin-gui and other Cities.

When a man departs from Kin-sai, and goes a
day to the south-east, he finds always most pleasant
houses and gardens, and all the means of living in great
abundance. At the end of the day he discovers the
city already named,t which is very large and beautiful, and is dependent on Kin-sai. The people are subject to the khan, use paper money, are idolaters, and
burn the bodies of their dead in the manner already
described. They live by merchandise and arts, and
have an ample supply of provisions. And when a man
goes three days to the south-east, seeing very large
cities and castles, and much trade, he comes to the city
of Un-gui,under the government of Kin-sai, and otherwise like the former. When he departs from Un-gui and
goes two days south-east, he every where perceives towns
and castles, so that he seems to be going through a city.
Every thing is in abundance ; and here are the largest
and longest canes in all the country, for know that
some are four palms in circuit and fifteen paces long.t
At the end of the two days he comes to Chen-gui,} which
is large and beautiful. The people, who are idolaters, are
under the great khan and the jurisdiction of Kin-sai, and
have abundance of silk and provisions. In going four days
south-east he finds citiesand castles, and all things in the
utmost plenty. There are birds and beasts for the chase,
with lions very large and fierce. Throughout all the
province of Manji there are neither sheep nor lambs,
but oxen, goats, and hogs in great variety. At the end
of the four days he finds Cian-cian,§ a town situated on a
mountain, which divides the river into two parts,
each flowing in a different direction. The people
are like the former ; and, at the end of three days more
we reach the city of Can-giu,|| large and beautiful ; and
this is the last under the jurisdiction of Kin-sai; for
now commences another kingdom, which is one of the
nine parts of Manji, and is called Fu-gui.

LXXVIII.—The Kingdom of Fu-gui.

When aman goes from the last-mentioned city of Kinsai he enters the kingdom of Fu-gui ;and, after travelling seven days, he finds houses and villages, the inhabitants of which are all idolaters,and under the jurisdiction
of Fu-gui. They have provisions in great abundance,
with numerous wild beasts for hunting ; also large and
fierce lions. They have ample supplies of ginger and galanga, so that for a Venetian grosso you can buy eighty
pounds. And there is a fruit or flower having the
appearance of saffron, and though not really so, yet of
equal value, being much employed in manufacture. They
eat the flesh of the filthiest animals, and even that of
aman, provided he has not died a natural death ; but
if he has been killed, they account his flesh extremely
delicate. When they go to war they cut their hair
very close, and paint their faces an azure colour like the
iron of a lance. They fight all on foot except their
chief ; and are the most cruel race in the world, because
they go about the whole day killing men, drinking
their blood, and eating their fiesh.

LXXIX.—Of the Cities of Que-lin-fu and Un-quem.

In the middle of these seven days you come to a
city called Que-lin-fu,which is very large and beautiful, subject to the great khan. It has three bridges,
the largest and most magnificent in the world; for each
is a mile long and ten paces broad, and all supported by
columnsof marble. The people live by merchandise and
arts, and have abundance of silk and ginger. The ladies
here are very beautiful. They have another strange
thing, hens that have no feathers, but skins like a cat.t
They lay eggs like those of our hens, and are very good
eating. And in the remainder of the seven days’ journey we discover many cities and castles, merchants and
merchandise, and men of art. There are lions, great
and fierce, doing much injury to the passengers, who on
this account cannot travel without imminent danger. At
the end of the journey is found a city called Un-quem,}
where there is made such a quantity of sugar, that the
whole court of the khan is thence supplied, which is
worth a vast treasure. Beyond it is the large city of
Fu-gui, capital of this kingdom.

LXXX.—Of the City of Fu-gui.
Fu-gui,§ as just stated, is the capital of the kingdom of
Con-cha, which is one of the nine parts of Manji. In that
city is much merchandise and art ; the people are idolatrous, and subject to the great khan. He keeps there a
strong army, because the towns and castles often revolt,
and whenever they do so the troops hasten thither, take.
and destroy them. Through the middle of that city flows
a river a mile broad; here much sugar is made, and an
extensive trade is carried on in precious atones and pearls,
which are brought by merchants from India and its
isles. It is also near the port of Zai-tun on the ocean,
whither come many ships from Hindostan with much
merchandise ; and they ascend by the great river to
Fu-gui. The people have abundance of all things
necessary for subsistence ; fine gardens, with good fruit ;
and the city is wonderfully well ordered in all respects.
But we will now go on to other matters.

LXXXI.—Of the most noble Port of Zai-tun, and of Ti-min-gui.

When one departs from Fu-gui, passes the river, and
goes five days south-east, he finds cities and castles,
where there is abundance of all things, woods, birds, and
beasts, with the tree which bears camphor. The people
are all idolaters, under the great khan and the jurisdiction of Fu-gui. At the end of the five days he finds a
city called Zai-tun,which is a noble port, where all
the ships of India arrive, and for one laden with pepper which comes from Alexandria to be sold throughout Christendom, there go to that city a hundred. It
is one of the two best ports in the world, and the most
frequented by merchants and merchandise. Know, too,
that the khan draws thence a large revenue, because
all the ships from India pay upon their several kinds
of goods, stones, and pearls, ten per cent., that is one in
ten. The ships take for their freight, on small merchandise, thirty per cent. ; on pepper, forty-four ; on lignum,
aloes, sandalwood, and other bulky articles, forty ; so
that merchants, between the freight and the duty, pay a
full half of all commodities brought into that port.
Those of this country are all idolaters, and have great
abundance of every thing necessary for the human body.
In that province isa city, named Ti-min-gui,where they
make the most beautiful cups in the world ; they are of
porcelain, and are manufactured in no other part of the
earth besides that city; for a Venetian grosso you may
purchase three cups of this most elegant ware. The
people of Fu-gui have a language of their own. Now,
I have told you of this kingdom, which is one of
the nine, and the great khan draws from it as much
duty and revenue as from that of Kin-sai. We have
not told you of the nine kingdoms of Manji, but only
of three, Manji, Kin-sai, and Fu-gui, and of these you
have heard fully ; but the others I cannot now describe, because it would be too tedious, and our book
has not yet treated of other things which I wish to
write about ; for I have to tell you of the Indians, who
are well worthy of being known. Their country contains many wonderful things found in none of the other
parts of the world, which it will be good and profitable
to write. And, I assure you, Marco remained so long in

India, and saw so much of its produce, customs, and
merchandise, that no man could better tell the truth.
Therefore I will put them in writing, precisely as Messer
Marco truly said them to me.
