https://arxiv.org/pdf/1807.02383.pdf
https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/L16-1684.pdf
PART III.

Voyage through the Indian Seas, and Historical Accounts
of Western Asia.

Chinese Navigation to India—Description of Japan—Expedition sent thither by Kublai—The Oriental Archipelago ; its
Produce of Gold and Spices—Visit to Tsiompa— War between
the King and Kublai—Account of Java—Malacca—Arrival
at Sumatra—Voyage round the Island—The different Kingdoms—Savages of the Interior—Produce of Palm-toddy,
Camphor, Sago—The Andaman and Nicobar Islands—CeyJon ; its Pearls and Rubies—Superstitious Legends of the
People—Coast of Maabar or Coromandel—Various Customs
and Superstitions—Masulipatam ; its fine Cloths—The Diamond Mines—Madras and the Legend of St Thomas—The
Bramins and their various Orders and Observances —Cail,
Coilon ; Comari (Cape Comorin)—Eli or Dely — Malabar
Coast—Dreadful Piracies—Tana and Cambaia—Sumnant
(Guzerat)—Mention of Mekran—Polo gives Reports collected
respecting Africa—Socotra ; Whale-fishery — Madagascar ;
fabulous Rumours—Confounded with Southern Africa—Zanguebar ; why considered an Island—Abyssinia ; its Description—Wars with Adel—Arabia, Aden, Shaher, Dofar, Kalhat—Return to Ormus—Undertakes to relate the Revolutions
of Western Asia—Kaidu, Prince of Samarcand—His Wars
with Kublai—Exploits of his heroic Daughter—His Contest
with Argon, Prince of Persia—Various Adventures of Argon,
who is defeated and made Prisoner, but afterwards raised
to the Persian Throne—His Death—Reigns of Quiacatu and
Baidu—The latter vanquished by Ghazan, Son to Argon—
Tartar Kingdom in Siberia ; Dog-sledges ; fine Furs—Region
of Obscurity in the North—Russia—Black Sea and neighbouring Countries—Succession of Tartar Princes on the
Volga—Great War between Barka and Hoolaku—Another
between Toctai and Nogai—Conclusion.

I.—India and the Ships navigating thither.
Having described so many inland provinces, I will now
enter upon India, with the wonderful objects in that region. The ships in which the merchants navigate
thither are made of fir, with only one deck, but many
of them are divided beneath into sixty compartments, in
each of which a person can be conveniently accommodated. They have one rudder and four masts ; while
some have two additional, which can be put up and taken
down at pleasure. Many of the largest have besides as
many as thirteen divisions in the hold, formed of thick
planks mortised into each other. The object is to guard
against accidents which may cause the vessel to spring a
leak, such as striking on a rock or being attacked by a
whale, This last circumstance is not unusual ; for dur- 
ing the night the motion of the ship through the waves 
raises a foam that invites the hungry animal, which, 
hoping to find food, rushes violently against the hull, 
and often forces in part of the bottom. The water, 
entering by the leak, runs on to the well, which is al- 
ways kept clear ; and the crew, on perceiving the occur- 
rence, remove the goods from the inundated division, and 
the boards are so tight that it cannot pass to any other. 
They then repair the injury and replace the articles. The 
plaiJ^ are double, fastened with iron nails, and plastered 
without and within, but not secured by pitch, of which 
the people are destitute. They therefore take lime, beat 
it into fine powder, and mix it with an oil from trees, so 
that it becomes equal to glue. These vessels carry two 
hundred mariners, and five or six thousand loads of 
pepper ; they are moved by oars, on each of which four 
hands are employed. Every one of them has two barks, 
large enough to carry a thousand loads, and forty seamen 
well armed, who often assist in dragging the large ships. 

Ten small boats are also kept for fishing and various
other services ; two being attached to each bark.
‘When the ships have sailed a year, and stand in need
of repair, a fresh plank is fastened above the two others,
then nailed and cemented, till they sometimes acquire
a depth of six planks. Having thus described the
merchant-vessels that go to India, I will tell you of the
country itself ; but first I must mention the many isles
in this sea lying to the eastward ; and first, of one named
Zipangu.

II.—Island of Zipangu, and Tartar Expedition thither.

This is a very large island, fifteen hundred miles from
the continent.The people are fair, handsome, and of
agreeable manners. They are idolaters, and live quite
separate, entirely independent of all other nations.
Gold is very abundant, and no man being allowed to export it, while no merchant goes thence to
the mainland, the people accumulate a vast amount.
But I will give you a wonderful account of a very large
palace, all covered with that metal, as our churches are
with lead. The pavement of the chamber, the halls,
windows, and every other part, have it laid on two
inches thick,so that the riches of this palace are
incalculable. Here are also red pearls, large, and of
equal value with the white, with many other precious
stones.* Kublai, on hearing of this amazing wealth,
desired to conquer the island, and sent two of his barons
with a very large fleet containing warriors, both horsemen and on foot. One was named Abatan, the other
Vonsanicin, both wise and valiant. They sailed from
Zai-tun and Kin-sai, reached the isle, landed, and took
possession of the plain and of a number of houses ; but
they had been unable to take any city or castle, when a
sad misadventure occurred. A mutual jealousy arose
amongst them, which prevented their acting in any concert. One day when the north wind blew very strong,
the troops expressed to each other apprehensions, that if
they remained, all the vessels would be wrecked. The
whole then went on board and set sail. When they had
proceeded about four miles, they found another small
isle, on which, the storm being violent, a number sought
refuge. Others could not reach it, many of whom suffered shipwreck and perished ; but some were preserved and
sailed for their native country. Those who had landed,
30,000 in number, looked on themselves as dead men,
seeing no means of ever escaping ; and their anger and
grief were increased, when they beheld the other ships
making their way homeward.

The sovereign and people of the large isle rejoiced
greatly when they saw the host thus scattered and many
of them cast upon the islet. As soon as the sea calmed,
they assembled a great number of ships, sailed thither
and landed, hoping to capture all those refugees. But
when the latter saw that their enemies had disembarked, leaving the vessels unguarded, they skilfully retreated to another quarter, and continued moving about
till they reached the ships, and went on board without
any opposition. They then sailed direct for the principal
island, hoisting its own standards and ensigns. On seeing these, the people believed their own countrymen had
returned, and allowed them to enter the city. The Tartars, finding it defended only by old men, soon drove
them out, retaining the women as slaves. When the
king and his warriors saw themselves thus deceived,
and their city captured, they were like to die of grief;
but they assembled other ships, and invested it so
closely as to prevent all communication. The invaders
maintained it seven months, and planned day and
night how they might convey tidings to their master
of their present condition ; but finding this impossible,
they agreed with the besiegers to surrender, securing
only their lives.This took place in the year 1269.
The great khan, however, ordered one of the commanders of this host to lose his head, and the other to be sent
to the isle where he had caused the loss of so many men,
and there put todeath. I have to relate also a very wonderful thing, that these two barons took a number of persons ina castle of Zipangu, and because they had refusedto
surrender, ordered all their heads to be cut off ; but there
were eight on whom they could not execute this sentence, because these wore consecrated stones in the arm
between the skin and the flesh, which so enchanted them,
that they could not die by steel. They were therefore
beaten to death with clubs, and the stones, being extracted, were held very precious.But I must leave this
matter and go on with the narrative.

III.—Idolatry and Cruelty of the Japanese.

The idolaters of Cathay, of Manji, and of these isles,
have all a uniform worship ; their idols have heads respectively of the dog, the hog, the sheep, and various other
animals, Some have a head and four faces, others three
heads, one in the proper place, and one on each shoulder.
Certain images have four, ten, and even a thousand
hands, and these last are held in peculiar reverence.
‘When the Christians ask them why they form idols in
so strange a manner, they reply,—"Our ancestors left
them to us, and we will leave them to our children.”
The actions of these beings are so various and diabolical,
that they must not be mentioned in this book, because
it would be a wicked thing in Christians to read them.
I shall only mention, that any idolater of these isles,
when he captures an enemy, who cannot procure a
ransom in money, invites his friends, who cook and eat
the prisoner, reckoning his flesh the most delicate food
that can be obtained.

IV.—Sea of China, and numerous Islands.
You must know, that the gulf containing this island
is called that of Zin, meaning in their language the sea
opposite to Manji. According to skilful and intelligent
mariners, who have made the voyage, it contains 7448
isles, mostly inhabited. In all these there grows no tree
which is not agreeably fragrant, and also useful, being
equal or superior in size to the lignum aloes. They
produce also many and various spices, including pepper
white like snow, as well as the black. They yield also
much gold, and various other wonderful and costly productions ;but they are very distant and difficult to
reach. The mariners of Zai-tun and Kin-sai, who visit
them, gain indeed great profits; but they spend a year
on the voyage, going in winter, and returning in the
summer ; for the wind in these seasons blows only from
two different quarters, one of which carries them thither,
and the other brings them back.But this country is
immensely distant from India. You may observe, too,
that though the sea be called Zin, it is really the ocean,
just as we say the sea of England, the sea of Rochelle.
The great khan has no power over these islands. Now
let us return to Zai-tun, and resume our narrative.

V.—Of Cianba, and Expedition thither.

On leaving that port, and sailing west and somewhat
south-west 1500 miles, you reach a country named Cianba,which is very rich and extensive. The people are
idolaters, have a language of their own, and 9 king, who
pays tribute to the great khan, but only in fine elephants
peculiar to the country. That monarch, seeking to
subdue him, sent, in 1278, one of his barons with many
men, horse and foot, who began to lay waste the country.
The sovereign, who was very aged and much afraid
of such powerful warriors, did not venture to engage
them on the open plain, remaining secure in strong cities
and fortresses ; but all the lands and houses were wasted
and destroyed. Grieved at the desolation of the territory, he sent messengers, who said to the great khan,
“ Sir, the King of Cianba salutes you as his liege lord,
and states himself to be a man of great age, who has long
preserved his kingdom in peace. He offers to be your
vassal, and pay a liberal tribute in elephants, and beseeches that your baron and army will cease to ravage
his kingdom.” The khan, having heard this message,
took pity upon him, and ordered his general to withdraw, and conquer another country ; and he has ever
since received this tribute of the largest and most
beautiful elephants.t In this kingdom, no handsome
girl can be married till the king sees her, when, if
pleased, he takes her to wife ; otherwise, he gives her
money, with which she can be married to a nobleman.
In 1285, when I, Marco Polo, was there, the king had
326 sons and daughters, of whom 150 were men that
could carry arms. Besides elephants, the country abounds
in lignum aloes, and the wood called ebony,which is
very black, used in making chess-boards and writingdesks. I now proceed to a great island named Java.

VI.—The Island of Java.

Departing from Cianba, and going south and southeast 1500 miles, you come to this island. Good mariners, who know it intimately, describe it as the largest
in the world, with a circuit of more than 3000 miles, The
people are subject to a powerful king, are idolaters, and
pay no tribute to any other prince. The territory is
very rich, yielding pepper, nutmegs, galanga, cubebs,
cloves, and all the richest of spices. Many merchants
from Zai-tun and Manji come and carry on a great and
profitable traffic. Its treasure also is so immense, that
it can scarcely be estimated.On account of the long
and difficult navigation, the great khan never could
acquire dominion over it.

VII.—Kingdom of Lochac.

Leaving this island, and sailing between south and
south-west 700 miles, you find two isles, a large and a
small, called Sondur and Condur.Departing thence,
and going south-east still 500 miles, you find a very
extensive province named Lochac.The people are
subject only to a native king, are idolaters, with languages
of their own. They are tributary to no power, being so
situated that no invader can reach their land ; otherwise
it would soon be subdued by the great khan. Brazilwood is in abundance, and gold in almost incredible
quantities. There are elephants and other animals for
hunting; and from this place is derived all the porcelain
that is circulated as money through the provinces now
described. I have only to add, that the country is difficult to reach; the king himself does not wish to be
visited by strangers, and thus no one knows his treasure
and condition.

VIII.—Pentam and other Islands.

When a man goes 500 miles southward from Lochac,
he finds an island named Pentam, very wild, all covered
with odoriferous woods. Thence he navigates between
these two islands about sixty miles, drawing only four
paces of water, so that large vessels in the passage must
remove their: rudder. He then goes on south-east
about thirty miles, and reaches an island also named
Pentam, with the noble and rich city Malauir, having
much traffic in spices and other articles. The people
have a king and languages of their own.

IX.—Island of Little Java (Sumatra).

Departing from Pentam, and going 130-miles south-east,
you find the island of Java the Lesser; but notwithstanding this title, it is above two thousand miles in circuit,
with eight kingdoms, and the same number of crowned
sovereigns.I will tell you the whole truth about it.
The people are idolaters, and each nation has a language of its own.There is a very great abundance of
treasure and costly spices, as well as of lignum aloes
and many other woods unknown in our country. What
will appear very wonderful is, that this isle lies so far
south, that the north star is never seen. Now I will
tell you of each kingdom by itself.

X.—Kingdom of Ferlech.

In that of Ferlech are Saracen merchants, who come
with their vessels, and have converted the people to the
law of Mohammed ; but only in the city, for those in
the mountains live like brutes, eating the flesh of men
and of the vilest animals. They worship various objects,
particularly the first thing they meet after rising in the
morning.

XI.—Kingdom of Basman.

Leaving Ferlech, you enter Basman,a kingdom by
itself, whose people have a language of their own, and
live without law, like beasts. They own the supremacy
of the khan, but pay him no tribute, because the great
distance prevents his troops from reaching them; yet
they sometimes make him a present of strange objects.
Here are wild elephants, and unicorns not much smaller,
being double the size of a buffalo. They have a large
black horn in the middle of the forehead, and beneath
the tongue sharp prickles, which can inflict severe
wounds, Their heads resemble that of the wild boar,
yet they carry them bent to the earth. They are very
ugly, and fond of wallowing among mire.It is not
true, as asserted among us, that they allow themselves
to be taken by a virgin, but quite the contrary. There
are here good and serviceable falcons, black like crows ;
also a prodigious number of monkeys of various forms
and habits. But you must know that those who bring
the little men from India practise a great deception. I
assure you the figures to which they give that name are
manufactured in this island in the following manner :—
There is a species of small monkey, with a face resembling
the human, which they catch, skin, and shave off all the
hair except on the beard and chin; having then moulded
them intoa human semblance, they dryand preservethem
with camphor and other articles. But it is a gross deception ; for neither in India, nor in any other country,
however savage, are there men so small as these pretended ones.t Now let us tell of a kingdom called
Samara.

XII.—Kingdom of Samara.

When a man departs from Basman, he finds the
kingdom of Samara, in which I myself, Marco Polo,
remained five months, because the bad weather did
not allow us to sail, Here neither the north star nor the
constellation of the Greater Bear appeared. The people
are savage idolaters, governed by a rich and powerful
king, and owning a nominal submission to the great
khan. During our stay, we landed and erected castles
of wood and twigs, where we remained through the fear
of these wicked men, who eat their fellow-creatures.
The best fishes in the world are found here. The people
have no wheat, living on rice ; and they make no wine.
You must know there is a kind of tree, of which they
cut a branch, and place a pot beneath, when, during the
night, the vessel is filled, and very good wine is thus
produced, both red and white. The tree resembles a
small date-palm, with four branches, and when it ceases
to give out more wine, they water its root, which causes
it to produce again.* They have great quantities of
very large Indian nuts, and eat all kinds of flesh, good
and bad. Now let us tell you of a kingdom which is
named Dagroian.

XIII.—Kingdom of Dagroian.

This kingdom has a language of its own; the people
are very savage, subject to a king, but owning the supremacy of the great khan.They are savage idolaters,
and have the following very bad custom :—When a man
falls sick, his relations send for the magicians, and inquire
if he will recover, as these deceivers profess to know,
by their enchantments and idols, whether he will live or
die. Inthe latter case, the friends send for persons who
place something over hismouth, by which he is suffocated.
They then cook the body, and all the kinsmen come
and eat his flesh, taking care not to leave the smallest portion; which they believe would breed worms,
and thus seriously afflict the soul of the deceased.
They next collect the bones, and place them in a
large and beautiful chest, which they carry to caverns
in the mountains, beyond the reach of wild beasts
or any other injury. When they take any man belonging to another country, who cannot redeem himself, they kill and eat him in like manner. This is a
very bad practice.I must now, however, tell you something of Lambri.

XIV.—Kingdom of Lambri.

Lambri is a kingdom having a sovereign of its own,
who owns the supremacy of the khan. The people are
all idolaters ; they have a great abundance of camphor
and other spices ; likewise brazil-wood.This they sow,
and when it has grown to a little twig, they transplant
it to another place, and at the end of three years
root it up.We brought some of this seed to Venice,
but it did not spring at all on account of the cold. I
will tell you another very wonderful thing ; for there
are men in this kingdom who have tails like dogs, larger
than a palm, and who are covered with hair. They
remain in the mountains, never visiting the towns.*
There are unicorns, with various beasts and birds for
hunting. Now let us depart and tell you of Fansur.

XV.—Kingdom of Fansur.

The people of Fansur are idolaters, have a king, and
nominally acknowledge the great khan. Here grows
the best canfara fansuri, which is much more valued
than any other ; indeed it sells for its weight in gold.
Wine is drawn from trees, in the manner described
above : another wonder is, that, in this province, meal
is obtained from them. These are large, the bark thin,
and the interior all full of meal. The inhabitants take
it out, and make a very good paste, of which we often
ate.Having told you of the kingdoms in this part of
the isle, I will say nothing of the two others, because
we did not. visit them. I will now, therefore, go to
another small island called Gavenispola.

XVI.—Islands of Necuveran and Angaman (Nicobar and
Andaman).

Departing from Java and the kingdom of Lambri,
and travelling northward about 150 miles, you find
two islands, one of which is called Necuveran.t The
people have no king, and live like brutes, both men and
women going quite naked. They are idolaters, and
have forests of noble and valuable trees ; among which
are sandal-wood, the Indian nut, clove, brazil, and many
others.

Angaman is a very large island, without a king; the
people idolaters, resembling savage beasts; indeed they
are a most extraordinary race, having a head, teeth, and
jaws like those of a mastiff dog. They are very cruel,
and eat all the men of every other nation whom they
can seize.They have great abundance and variety of
spices, with fruits different from ours, but live chiefly on
flesh and milk. Having told of these various people, I
will now mention another island.

XVII.—Island of Seilan.

When you depart from Angaman, and sail. about a
thousand miles westward, a little to the south, you
reach the island of Seilan,the very best of its size
in the world. It is 2400 miles in circuit ; yet I must
tell you that anciently it was larger, being 3600, as
appears by the old maps of the mariners on that sea ; but
the north wind blows with such violence, that a great
part has been carried away by the water.[ The people
have a king called Sendemain, and are tributary to none ;
they are idolaters, and go quite naked, except a small
covering round the middle. They have no grain but
rice, living on it and on flesh. I will now describe
the most precious thing in the world; for here are
noble and beautiful rubies, which can be procured nowhere else ; also the sapphire, the topaz, the amethyst,
and various other precious stones. The king has the
most beautiful ruby that ever was or can be in the whole
world. It is the most splendid object on earth, and
seems to glow like fire; it is of such value as money
could scarcely purchase.The great khan sent his
messengers to him, wishing to buy it, and offering
the value of a city. The monarch replied, that he had
received it from his ancestors, and would for no earthly
consideration part with it. The people are not menat-arms, but unwarlike and cowardly ; when they need
soldiers in war, they send for those of another country,
commonly for Saracens.

XVIII.—Origin of the Boodhist Religion in Seilan.

I have also to tell you that in this island there is a
great mountain, of which the rocks are so broken that it
can be ascended only by chains of iron suspended, whereby men may mount to the summit. Here, according
to the Saracens, is the monument of Adam our first
father ; but the idolaters consider it as that of Sergamon
Borcam. They describe this last as the first man whose
image they worshipped, and as the best that ever lived
in their country. He was son to a great, rich, and
powerful king, yet refused to succeed to the throne, or
to attend to any worldly concern. The monarch, who
had no other son, was both grieved and angry. He made
him large promises, offering even to resign, and raise
him immediately te the throne ; but the youth would
listen to no such proposal. The father was like to
die of grief, but bethought himself of a plan for bringing him back to the world.He lodged him in a very
fine palace, and appointed 30,000 beautiful damsels to
serve and amuse him. The prince, however, remained insensible to their seductions, and led a more virtuous and
chaste life than before. Now his habits had been g0 recluse that he had never seen a dead person, or one not perfectly sound in his members. One day, happening to ride
across the path where a man lay dead, he was utterly
astonished, and asked of his attendants what that was.
This being explained, he inquired if all men died, and
being told they did so, he walked on, musing very
deeply. Some time after, he saw one unable to walk,
and with all his teeth decayed through extreme old age.
Having asked, and being informed what that was, he
declared he would no longer remain in this evil region,
but would seek a place where men neither died nor
grew old. He left the palace, and journeyed into great
and trackless mountains, where he spent his whole life
virtuously and chastely, observing rigid abstinence ; so
that had he been a Christian, he must have been a very
great saint. When he died, his corpse was carried to his
father, who, on seeing the body of one whom he loved
better than himself, was grieved to the heart. He made
an image of him composed of gold and precious stones.
All the people of the country adored him as a god, and
they say that he died eighty-four times, becoming first an
ox, then a horse, then a dog, and various other animals ;
but that the eighty-fourth time he became a god, and they
worship him as their best and greatest. These were the
first idolaters, from whom all the others in Seilan
were descended. But I assure you, many from the
most distant countries come hither on pilgrimage, as
Christians to the shrine of St James, and the monument
on this mountain is said to be that of the prince, whose
teeth, hair, and skull were preserved. But the Saracens say that it is that of Adam, our first parent.
God knows which is right, but one cannot believe the
latter, for the Scriptures of our holy church assure us
that he died in another part of the world.Now it
happened that the great khan, hearing that the tomb of
Adam, with the other objects mentioned, was on this
mountain, sent, in 1284, a numerous embassy, who
travelled by land to the island of Seilan. They went
to the king, and procured two of the grinding teeth,
which were very large, also the hair, and the cup, of
beautiful green porphyry. They then returned, and
sent notice to their sovereign of what they were bringing,
when he ordered his subjects to go forth and meet these
relics of our first father. All the citizens of Kambalu
came out; the chief men received the sacred objects,
and brought them to his majesty, who welcomed them
with great joy and reverence. I assure you, too, they
found this cup to be of such virtue, that when food was
introduced for one man, there would be enough for five ;
and the great khan declared he had tried this, and found
it the truth.Now having told you truly all this history, I will leave it and relate other things.

XIX.—Kingdoms of Maabar.

When you depart from Seilan, and go westward about
sixty miles,you come to the extensive provinceof Maabar,
on the mainland. It is called India the Greater, and is
indeed the noblest and richest country in the whole
world.t In this province there are five kings, who are
brothers, and the one that reigns here is called Senderbandi Davar. The largest and finest of pearls are found
in a gulf between this continent and the island, having
nowhere more than ten or twelve paces depth of water,
and in some places only two. Vessels, large and small,
resort thither from the beginning of April to the middle
of May, and cast anchor in a place called Bettalar, about
sixty miles out at sea; they then go in boats and begin
the fishery. Many merchants, formed into companies,
hire and pay the men employed. They gave a tenth to
the king, and a twentieth to the Abraiamain, who enchants the fishes, depriving them of the power to injure
the persons who dive under water for the pearls ; indeed
he can enchant also all kinds of beasts and birds. The
charm, howevet, lasts only during the day; at night the
animals enjoy full liberty. When the men in the boats
have found water four to twelve feet deep, they plunge to
the bottom, and get shells called sea-oysters, and within whose flesh are found pearls of all sizes and shapes.
These are brought up in very large quantities, and distributed over the world,—the king drawing from them
a great revenue. During the rest of the year they
are not found here; but at a place 300 miles distant,
where they are taken from September to the middle of
October.

XX.—Hindoo Customs and Superstitions.

Now, in all this province of Maabar, there is not a
tailor, for the people go naked at every season. The
air is always so temperate, that they wear only a
piece of cloth round the middle. ‘The king is dressed
just like the others, except that his cloth is finer,t
and he wears a necklace full set with rubies, sapphires,
emeralds, and other precious stones, worth a great treasure. He has also suspended from his neck a silken
cord, reaching a pace down, and containing 104 of the
largest pearls and most valuable rubies. It is worn because he repeats every day, morning and evening, 104
prayers in honour of his idols. To this he is bound by
his faith and religion, by the example and injunction of
his ancestors.He wears also round three parts both
of his arms and legs, bracelets of gold, full of goodly
stones and pearls. In short, the number of his jewels
is surprising, being of more value than a handsome city,
and no wonder, since they are all produced in his own
dominions. No man is allowed to export either a pearl
or stone of great value, but must produce it to him,
and as he gives double its cost, they do so very willingly,
whence he has collected so ample a store. Now I must
tell you of other marvellous things: he has 500 wives ;
and as soon as he sees a beautiful lady, takes and
keeps her for himself.He did the same in the case
of a very handsome wife of his brother, who, being
a prudent man, submitted, and did not quarrel on
that account.The king has certain faithful adherents,
who attend him on horseback wherever he goes, and
hold great commands under him ; nay, what is wonderful, they serve him both in this and in the other world.
‘Whenever he dies, and his body is thrown into a
great fire, these vassals throw themselves after him,
that they may accompany and serve him still in the
future state.It is the national custom that, when
the king dies, and leaves a great treasure, his son will
not spend it for the world; saying, I have all my
father’s kingdom and people, why should I not support
myself as he did. Thus the treasure collected in this
kingdom becomes immense.

In this country no horses are reared, and hence the
greater part of the revenue is employed in obtaining
them from foreign regions. The merchants of Curmos,
of Quisci, of Dufar, of Soer, and of Aden, whose provinces
contain many steeds of fine quality, purchase, embark, and bring them to the king and his four princely
brothers, selling them for 500 sagi of gold, worth more
than 100 mares of silver. I assure you, this monarch
buys annually more than 2000, but, by the end of the
year, they are all dead, from wanting the medicine
necessary to keep them in health. The merchants who
import them wish this to happen, and are therefore
careful not to introduce the cure.Another custom
is, that when a man has committed a crime, and is condemned to die, he expresses a wish to devote himself in
honour of a certain divinity, to which the king consents.
Then his relations and friends place him on a wagon,
giving him twelve knives, and lead him through the
city, calling out, “ This brave man is about to kill
himself for the love of the great idol.” When they
come to the place of execution, he takes a knife and
cries aloud, “ I kill myself for the love of such a deity.”
He then, with different knives, strikes himself in one
arm, then in the other, next in the stomach, and so on
till he expires, when the relations burn his body with
great joy.I must tell you another custom of this
country, that when a man is dead, and his body burned,
his wife throws herself into the fire with her lord ; she
is then much praised by the people, and many ladies
follow the example.The men also of this kingdom
adore idols, and many worship the ox, saying, he is a
valuable animal, and on no account would they kill
him, or eat his flesh. Yet there is a race named gaui
who eat it, butas they dare not slay the animal, they
use only those that die a natural or accidental death.
All the people, too, anoint their houses with its dung.
It is the custom also that the king, barons, and
other persons sit upon the ground, and when asked why
they decline a more honourable seat, they say, “ We
came from earth, and must return to it, and cannot too
much honour this common mother.” These gaui who
eat beef are the persons by whose ancestors St Thomas
the apostle was killed; hence none of this lineage
can enter the place where he lies buried, nor could
twenty men force them in, nor ten hold them there, on
account of the virtue of that sacred body.

In this country there grows no grain but rice. It is
remarkable that large fine horses in process of breeding
produce only ponies with twisted legs, unfit for riding, and good for nothing. The people go to battle
.with lance and shield, entirely naked ; yet are they not
valiant and courageous, but mean and cowardly. They
kill no animals of any description ; but when they wish
to eat their flesh, make them be slain by the Saracens
and other nations, whose laws and customs are different. Both men and women wash the whole body in
water twice every day, morning and evening, and till
then will neither eat nor drink. He who omits this
observance is regarded as we do a heretic.

Very severe justice is executed upon those who
commit murder or any other trespass, When a creditor
has repeatedly applied for payment and been deceived by fallacious promises, he takes the following
course. He draws a circle round the debtor, who
dares not move beyond it, till he has either made payment or given good security ; and should he attempt to
escape, he becomes liable to capital punishment. Marco himself, when returning homeward through this
country, was eyewitness to a remarkable transaction
of this nature. The king owed a sum of money to
a foreign merchant, and being frequently solicited, he
put him off with empty promises. One day, when his
majesty was riding out, the creditor took the opportunity of describing such a circle round his person. On
seeing what had been done, the monarch immediately
stopped, and did not move from the spot till the demand was satisfied. ‘The people viewed with admiration this conduct, and pronounced their sovereign well
entitled to the epithet of just.

Most persons abstain from drinking wine, and reject the
testimony or guarantee of those who indulge in it ;also
of mariners, accounted a reckless and desperate race.
Dissolute conduct is practised without censure. The heat
is wonderful, and is the cause of their going naked. No
rain falls except in June, July, and August, and were
not the air cooled by showers during these three months,
it would be impossible to live. Many are skilled in an
art which they call physiognomy, which consists in knowing men or women, their qualities good or bad, by merely
seeing them. They regard augury beyond any people in
the world ; for, I assure you, if a man sets out on a
journey, and meets an omen deemed unlucky, he often
turns back.Whenever a boy or girl is born, the father
or mother causes the nativity to be written out, the day,
month, and hour, and these are interpreted by astrologers
learned in enchantment and the magical art.

As soon as a son attains the age of thirteen, he is set
at liberty, and no longer allowed to remain in his father’s
house. He receives from twenty to twenty-four groats of
their money, and is then considered capable of earning
his own subsistence by some trade. These boys, accordingly, run about in all directions throughout the day,
buying and selling. During the pearl-fishery, they frequent the beach and purchase from the fishermen five
or six small ones, which they carry to the merchant,
who, on account of the heat, has remained seated in his
house. They tell him what they have paid, and demand a reasonable profit, which he usually gives. The
day’s business being over, they carry provision to their
mothers, who prepare and dress it for their dinner ; but
they do not depend at all on their father for a maintenance.

Here, and throughout all India, the birds and beasts are
different from ours, except one bird, which is the quail.
They have also bald owls, which fly in the night ; they
have neither wings nor feathers, and are as large as an
eagle. The eagles are black like crows, larger than
ours, expert both at flying and hawking. Another thing
worth mentioning is, that they feed their horses with
flesh and many other dishes cooked with rice. Their
monasteries are filled with idols, to whom many young
girls are devoted by their parents. They must go to the
monastery whenever required by the superior, which is
usually several times a-week. They there sing, dance,
and make great rejoicings. These young ladies also
prepare savoury dishes of flesh and other food, which
they carry to the sanctuary, and place before the idol
as much as would make a good meal for a great lord.
They then dance, sing, and rejoice, till time has been
given for him to feed on the substance of the meat,
when they take and eat it themselves, with great rejoicing. These ladies, who are very numerous, continue
the same mode of life till after their marriage.Having
given you this full account of the manners, customs, and
doings of this kingdom, we shall depart and tell of another, named Mutfili.

XXI.—Masulipatam—Diamonds of Golconda.

At this kingdom we arrive after departing from Maabar and travelling northward about a thousand miles.
It is subject to a queen of great wisdom, whose husband
died forty years ago, and her love to him was such that
she has never married another. During this whole term,
she has ruled the nation with great equity, and been
beloved beyond measure by her people.They are
idolaters and independent ; they live on rice, flesh, and
milk. In this kingdom, you must know, is found the
diamond ; there are several mountains, among which,
during rain, water flows with great turbulence, and
through wide caverns; and when the shower ceases,
men search through the ground previously inundated,
and find the gems, In summer, there is not a drop of
water, and the heat can scarcely be endured, while
fierce and venomous serpents inspire great fear; yet
those who venture thither discover valuable diamonds.
There is also an extensive and deep valley, so enclosed
by rocks as to be quite inaccessible; but the people
throw in pieces of flesh, to which the diamonds adhere. Now you must observe, there are a number of
white eagles, which, when they see the flesh in the
bottom of the valley, fly thither, seize and carry it to
different spots. The men are on the watch, and as soon
as they see the bird with the spoil in its mouth, raise
loud cries, when, being terrified, it flies away and drops
the meat, which they take up, and find the diamond
attached. Even when the prey has been swallowed,
they watch where the excrement is voided, and obtain in
this way not a few jewels. Now this is the only country in the world containing these precious stones ; and
do not suppose that the best come to our christian countries ; they are carried to the great khan and other lords
of those regions, whose ample treasure enables them to
purchase.I must mention, too, that here are made the
most beautiful and valuable cotton cloths in the world ;
also the thinnest and most delicate, resembling our
spiders’ webs.They have abundance of animals, and
the largest sheep in the world, with plentiful subsistence
ofeverykind. I must now describe the place containing
the body of the apostle St Thomas.

XXII.—St Thomas (Madras), Legends respecting him.

This is in a small town of Maabar, containing few
inhabitants, and seldom visited by merchants, there
being little trade, and the roads difficult. Many Christians and Saracens, however, resort thither in pilgrimage: the latter esteem him a great saint, and even
assert that he wasa Mohammedan. But I will now relate
awonder. The Christians, who repair to that shrine, take
from the place a red earth, carry it into their country, and
give a small portion to any person sick of a fever, who is
presently cured. But I have now a miracle to tell ; for
about the year 1288, a baron of this district had a great
quantity of rice, and filled with it all the houses around
the church. The pilgrims having thus no place to lodge,
prayed him much to desist ; but being fierce and proud,
he paid no regard to their entreaty. Next night, accordingly, Messer St Thomas appeared to him with a fork
in his hand, which he thrust forcibly against his throat,
causing severe pain, and saying, “ If you do not forthwith empty my houses, you shall die an evil death.”
He disappeared, and the baron rose early in the morning, related the apparition, and caused all the buildings to be emptied. The Christians greatly rejoiced,
and honoured this great apostle. I could relate other
wonderful cures effected on persons labouring under
various bodily infirmities; but I will now merely
describe his death. He had left his hermitage in the
wood, and was engaged in prayer, while around were a
number of peacocks, which are more numerous here than
elsewhere in the world. Now an idolatrous Gaui, aiming at one of these birds, let fly an arrow without seeing
the saint, whom, however, it struck on the right side ;
and finding himself thus wounded, he very mildly adored
his Creator, and soon after expired. But before coming
hither, he had converted many people in Nubia,as I
will afterwards narrate.

When a child in this province is born, they anoint
him every day with the oil of sesamé, which makes him
become blacker than at birth; for whoever ix most
deeply tinted is honoured in proportion. Indeed, these
people paint their god and all their idols black, and their
devils white as snow. The men, when they go to battle,
place such faith in the ox as a holy thing, that they
take the hair of the wild bull, and if they fight on a
horse, attach it to the neck ; if on foot, to their shield ;
thinking themselves thus better secured against every
danger. Hence, the hair of this animal sells at a considerable price.

XXIII.—Lar ; the Bramins.

Lar is a province lying westward of this place, and
thence came originally all the Abraiamain in the world.
These are the best and most honest of all merchants,
and would not on any account tell a lie.They neither
eat flesh nor drink wine, are faithful to their wives, and
lead every way very virtuous lives. They take nothing
from any one, and do nothing that could be considered
a sin.They are all known by a silk thread worn over
the shoulder, and tied beneath the opposite arm, so that
it passes across both the breast and back.t They have
arich king, who readily purchases precious stones, and
enjoins that the merchants shall offer to him all the
pearls brought from Maabar, for which he pays double the
cost. They therefore procure them in large quantities.
Theyare idolaters,and regard omens from birds and beasts
more than any other nation in the world. I will tell
you one of their customs: when one wishes to treat for
any merchandise, he rises and observes his shadow in the
sun ; and if it be of the due length, on that day, according to certain rules, he makes his bargain ; but if it be
not long enough, he will not buy a single article. If
they go to a house for this purpose, and see one of the
animals named tarantula, which here greatly abound,
they observe if it comes to them from a lucky quarter, in
which case they buy ; but if otherwise, they give up the
transaction and go away. Nay, I assure you, if one leaving
his house hears a man sneeze in a manner that does not
appear lucky, he stops and re-enters, Even if on his
road he sees a swallow approaching from the right or
left, in an unlucky manner, he returns.Their teeth
are very good, through the use of an herb, which makes
them look extremely well, and is very salutary.They
never bleed from the vein or any other part, yet perfectly preserve their health.
There are among them an order named cuigui, who
live to an extraordinary age, even 150 or 200 years,
yet can perform all the service of the monastery and
idols as well as younger men. This is owing to their
great abstinence in eating and drinking ; for they subsist
mostly on rice and milk. They mingle also quicksilver
and sulphur, making a beverage which they drink from
their infancy, saying that it lengthens their lives.t
There is also in this kingdom a religious order of more
rigid cuigui, observing the strictest abstinence, leading
a very rude and severe life, and going perfectly naked.
They adore the ox, and many wear on their forehead a
small effigy of one in copper or bronze gilded. They also
burn the dung, and reduce it to a powder, with which
they reverentially anoint many parts of their body, as
Christians use holy water. They eat neither from spoon
nor platter, but from large leaves, mostly of the apple
of paradise. Even these must be dry ; for if green, they
are said to have a soul, which it would be sin to kill;
and they would rather die than commit towards any animal an action believed unlawful. When asked why they
feel no shame in going naked, they say, because they
wish to have nothing belonging to this world, which
they entered without clothing ; and committing no sin, they have no reason to be ashamed. Besides, they kill
no living creature, neither fly nor flea, nor hog nor
worm, considering they have souls. They will sleep
on the earth without any covering, whence it is a great
wonder they do not die, much more that they enjoy
so long a life. They fast the whole year round, drinking only water.Some reside in the monastery to
serve the gods; but before admission they undergo the
following trial. The young girls offered to the idols
caress these new candidates, and endeavour variously to
entertain them. Such as appear to take any pleasure
in these endearments, are rejected as unworthy ; but if
they show themselves totally indifferent, they are then
retained.Such are the customs of these cruel and
perfidious idolaters, who burn the bodies of their dead,
because otherwise they would breed worms, which after
eating the flesh would starve, and thus involve in great
sin the soul to which the body belonged. But I willnow
cease saying any more about them.

XXIV.—City of Cail.

Cail is a great and noble city, belonging to Asciar,
eldest of the five brother-kings. Its port is frequented
by all the ships from the west, Curmos, Quisci, Aden, and
the whole of Arabia, laden with merchandise and horses.
The merchants bring them hither as to a good market,
frequented by purchasers from other quarters.The king
possesses immense treasures, and wears many precious
stones. He rules his nation very justly and uprightly,
for which cause the merchants frequent it, and afford
him great profit. He has three hundred wives and upwards, holding it a high honour to increase their number. When discord arises among the five brother-kings,
their mother, who is still alive, rushes between them,
and will not allow them to fight. Often, when they
will not yield to her prayer, and are about to engage,
she takes a knife and says, “ If you will not renounce
this quarrel, I will kill myself presently, and cut away
the paps with which I gave you milk.” When the
sons see this great piety in their mother, they feel themselves bound to make peace. But as soon as she is dead,
they cannot fail to quarrel and destroy each other.

All the natives here, as well as generally throughout
India, have continually in their mouths the leaf called
tembul. It affords them gratification, and its use has become quite habitual ; after chewing they spit out the moisture. The rich mix it with camphor and other aromatic
drugs, and even with quick-lime. When any one wishes to
insult another in the grossest manner, he spits this juice
in his face. The injured party then hastens to the king,
and declares his wish to decide the quarrel by combat.
His majesty furnishes him with a sword and small
shield ; and all the people assemble as spectators of the
conflict, which is only terminated by the death of one
of the parties. They are not, however, allowed to strike
with the point of the sword.Now let us depart and
tell you of the kingdom of Coilon.

XXV.—Kingdom of Coilon.

After departing from Maabar, and going south-west
500 miles, you arrive at Coilon.The people are idolaters, yet among them are Christians and Jews. They
have languages of their own, and a king tributary to no
one. In this territory grows extremely good brazil-wood,
called coilomin. Pepper greatly abounds, being collected in the months of May, June, and July; the trees
are carefully planted and irrigated. Indigo also is very
plentiful and good, being made of an herb which they
place in a great vessel, then pour in water, and leave it
till the juice is given out. Being then placed in the
hot sun, it boils, acquires consistence, and becomes
what we see. In this country the heat of the sun can
scarcely be endured ; if you put an egg into any river,
it will be boiled before you have gone any great distance. Hither resort many merchants from Manji, Arabia, and the Levant, bringing quantities of goods, and
carrying away those of the country. There are various
animals different from all others in the world; such as a
black lion, without either spot or mark ; parrots of nu-_
merous kinds, some white as snow, with red beak and
feet ; others red and white, most lovely ; and some extremely small, and also very beautiful. The peacocks are
much larger, handsomer, and of a different species from
ours. The domestic fowls are also peculiar; in short,
they have all things, fruits, beasts, and birds, dissimilar to
ours, and both handsomer and better. They have no
grain but rice, and make a wine from sugar, which is
good, and intoxicates sooner than that from grapes.
Every thing necessary to support life abounds. Here are
a number of skilful astrologers and physicians, who
know how to preserve the human body in health. Both
sexes are completely black, and wear no covering except
a fine cloth about the middle.Their behaviour to each
other shows little sense of propriety. A man will marry
his cousin-german, the widow of his father, and even of
his brother ; this is the custom among all the people of
India.

XXVI.—Comari (Cape Comorin).

Comari is a country of India, remarkable in this respect, that the north-star, which we had not seen since
leaving Java, appeared to us when thirty miles out at
sea, rising about a cubit above the horizon. There are
few domestic, but abundance of wild animals, particularly monkeys of various shapes, some of which would
almost seem to be men. There are cats of a very peculiar and wonderful species, lions, leopards, and ounces
in great numbers.I will now proceed to Eli.

XXVII.—Eli or Dely.

Eli is a kingdom, about 300 miles west of Comari,
The people are subject to a king, idolaters, with a peculiar language, and independent of foreigners, I will
tell you fully their customs and manners, which you
will understand better, as we approach nearer home.
There is no port except a large river, with a good entrance. Pepper grows in great abundance, and there isa
considerable produce of ginger and other spices. The king
is very rich, but not powerful in men; yet his dominions
have such strong approaches, that he has no dread of invasion. If any vessel destined for another port is driven
hither by stress of weather, the people seize and possess
themselves of all its cargo, saying, “You were going to
another place, but God sends you and yourstome.” In
this they think themselves quite guiltless. Ships come
from Manji and other parts in the summer, load in
eight days, and depart as soon as possible, there being no
port, but dangerous sandbanks. Those of Manji are
least apprehensive, being provided with large wooden
anchors. There are here lions and other wild beasts,
with good hunting.

XXVIII.—Melibar or Malabar.

Melibar is a great kingdom towards the westward, with
a sovereign and languages of its own.The people are
idolaters, and subject to no foreigner. Here the northstar, at its greatest height, appears two cubits above the
water. From this and an adjacent province named Gozurat, there issue annually a body of upwards of a hundred vessels, who capture other ships and plunder the
merchants. Being sea-robbers, they carry with them
their wives and children, and remain together all the
summer, doing great injury to trade. These wicked
corsairs form what they call a ladder on the sea ; twenty
of them place themselves five miles from each other,
and thus command a hundred miles in extent. When
a merchantman comes in view, a light is kindled,
which is repeated by one after another; so that no
vessel sailing here can escape them. The mariners,
however, knowing well their wicked customs, come
well armed and prepared, and fight a desperate battle,
often beating them off with loss ; but at other times fall
into their hands. The pirates then take the ship with
all the goods, but do no injury to the men, saying to
them, “ Go and collect another cargo, that we may have
a chance of getting it too.”

In this country is a vast abundance of pepper, and also
of ginger, with a good supply of cinnamon and other
spices, also cubebs and cocoa-nuts. Cotton cloths, the
most beautiful and delicate in the whole world, are here
manufactured, with other valuable articles.t To purchase these goods, the merchants from other quarters
bring copper, which they use as ballast ; cloths of silk and
gold, sandal-wood, and other spices. Ships come even
from the great province of Manji; and the dealers
here convey the goods to various quarters in the west,
whence the most valuable are forwarded to Alexandria.
Having told you now of Melibar, we shall go to Gozurat,
but it would be too tedious to inform you of all the cities
of these countries, they are so very numerous.

XXIX.—Kingdom of Gozurat.
Gozurat, too, is a great kingdom to the west, having
languages and a king of its own, and subject to no other.
Here the north-star rises to the apparent height of six
cubits. The greatest pirates in the world live here, and
have a most wicked custom ; after taking a merchant,
they make him drink tamarinds and sea-water, then
examine carefully if he voids any pearls or precious
stones, which are alleged to be usually swallowed on such
emergencies.There is in this land a great quantity of
pepper and indigo, with a good deal of ginger. Cotton also abounds, and the trees which bear it, when
twenty years old, rise to the height of six paces; but
the produce is then unfit to be spun, and can only be
used for quilting. Before twelve years, it is well fitted
for the former purpose.t An immense quantity of
"dressed leather is prepared from the skins of the goat,
the buffalo, the wild ox, unicorn, and various other animals, and it is largely exported to Arabia and adjoining regions. Coverlets of red leather are also framed,
with representations of birds and beasts, most delicately
interwoven with gold and silver thread. They are wonderfally beautiful, and being used by the Saracens for
sleeping upon, are worth ten mares of silver. There are
also cushions woven with gold, valued atten marcs. In
short, this leather is embroidered for royal use, more
delicately than in any other part of the world.

XXX.—Tana (Bombay).

Tana is a great kingdom in the west ; the inhabitants
idolaters, with a language of their own, under a sovereign
subject to no other. It does not produce pepper, or
such spices as the other provinces ; but yields incense, not
white, but of a brown colour.t There is a great trade
in leather finely dressed, also in good cotton, both raw
and made into cloth. The merchants import gold, silver,
brass, and other goods necessary for these kingdoms,
receiving various articles in return. But I have a bad
thing to tell you ; for many pirates issue hence, scouring the sea, and greatly injuring the sailors; and the
king sanctions their conduct, having made an agreement,
that they bring to him all the horses captured, which
are very numerous, being in great request over all India. But gold, silver, precious stones, and the rest of
the cargo, belong to themselves. Now this is bad and
very unjust conduct. Let us leave this country and
speak of Cambaia.

XXXI.—Kingdom of Cambais.

This is a great kingdom to the west ; the people idolaters, with a language of their own, and a ruler subject
to no other. Here the north-star appears more fully,
as it always does the farther you go westward. This
region is rich and productive, particularly in excellent indigo; also cotton, both raw and manufactured,
which is exported to many other countries. I may add,
many hides are dressed, and worked with a skill nowhere
surpassed ; also other articles too tedious to enumerate.
The foreign merchants bring mostly gold, silver, and
brass. The people are not pirates, but honest ; living
by trade and manufacture.And now I will tell you
of Semenat.

XXXII.—Kingdom of Semenat (Sumnaut).

This is a great country to the westward. The inhabitants are idolaters, with languages of their own, and
@ monarch subject to no other. They are not pirates, but
live by trade and industry, as good men ought to do. ‘The
country is rich, and frequented by many merchants.
The people, however, are fierce and cruel idolaters.
Kesmacoran is a kingdom with a sovereign and languages of itsown. The people are idolaters, and raise
abundance of rice, on which and on flesh and milk
they subsist. There is a great trade by sea and land,
but nothing else worth mentioning.Now this is the
last province found in India, in proceeding between west
and north-west ; and all the kingdoms already described,
from Maabar to this, belong to that India which is called
the Greater, and is the first of any in the world. I have,
however, only mentioned those on the seacoast, since to
treat of the inland ones would have been too tedious.
I shall therefore proceed to notice certain islands,
also belonging to India, and first two called Male and
Female.

XXXIII.—Islands called Male and Female.

The isle called Male is full 500 miles out at sea, south
of Kesmacoran. The people are baptized Christians,
attached to the law and customs of the Old Testament ;
they are very reserved in their intercourse with their
wives. All the latter, indeed, dwell in another isle which
is called Female. The men go and reside there three
months in the year—March, April, and May—when they
return to their own residence, and spend the remaining
nine months in labour. In this isle is found very fine
and beautifulamber. The people live on rice, milk, and
flesh, and excel in fishing, capturing enough both for
their own food and for exportation. They have no
ruler except a bishop subject to the Archbishop of
Scotra, and have languages of their own. The isle
where their wives reside is thirty miles distant ; but
they could not live if they spent the whole year with
them. The sons remain with their mothers till the
of fourteen, when they go to join their fathers in their
separate abode.

XXXIV.—Isle of Socotra.

About 500 miles south from these isles you find that
of Scotra, the people of which are baptized Christians,
and have an archbishop. Ambergris is very plentiful,
being voided from the entrails of whales, which are
pursued most actively, in order to obtain this precious
article. They strike into the animal a barbed iron 80
firmly that it cannot be drawn out. A long line attached enables them to discover the place where the
dead fish lies, and drag it to the shore, when they extract from its belly the ambergris, and from its head
several casks of oil.Fine cotton cloth is made; and
abundance of good salt fish prepared. The people subsist on rice, milk, and flesh; and go naked after the
manner of the other idolatrous Indians. To this island
come many ships and merchants ; and indeed all those
destined for Aden touch there. The archbishop has no
connexion with the See of Rome, but is subject to a
primate resident at Bagdad, who appoints him, as well
as sends mandates to bishops and prelates in other quarters of the world. Hither, too, repair many corsairs
with their ships, to sell their booty, and find a ready
market, because the Christians, knowing it to have been
abstracted from idolaters and Saracens, scruple not to
purchase.

They perform many other marvellous enchantments,
which it would be wrong to relate; they would excite
such amazement. We shall therefore leave them, and
describe the island of Madagascar.

XXXV.—Madagascar.

This is an island towards the south, about a thousand
miles from Scotra. The people are Saracens, adoring
Mohammed ; and they have four sheiks, or old men, who
rule the entirecountry. This is really one of the noblest
and greatest islands in the world, being reputed 4000
miles in circuit. In no region are so many elephants
bred, and their teeth sold, as here and in Zanghibar.
No flesh is eaten but that of camels, of which an incredible number are killed every day ; and being supposed
better and more wholesome than any other, it is used
if possible during the whole year.t The red sandal grows
here to the height of our forest trees, and is sold with
advantage to foreigners. Ambergris also abounds, from
the number of whales which, as you know, yield that
substance. There are leopards, ounces, and lions ; likewise
various other animals, such as stags, wild goats, and deer,
some of great size. The birds are equally various, several
wonderfully different from ours. Many ships arrive
with abundance of goods, as cloths of silk and gold,
which are profitably exchanged for those of the country.
Mariners, however, cannot reach the other islands lying
south of this and of Zanghibar, owing to the violence of
the current running in this direction. It is such, that
while vessels can come hither from Malabar in twenty
days, they spend three months in returning.

Now I must mention, that in these southern isles, the
birds called griffon are reported to exist, and to appear
at certain seasons ; yet they are not formed as we describe
and paint them, half-bird, half-lion, but exactly like the
eagle, only immeasurably larger. They are represented so
huge and powerful, as to take up the elephant and carry
him high into the air, then let him drop, whereby he is at
once killed, and they feed upon his carcass. It is asserted
that their wings are twelve paces long, and when spread
out, extend thirty paces across ; they are thick in proportion. I must add, that the khan sent messengers to obtain
information about the country, and also the release of one
of his subjects who had been made prisoner. They and
the captive related to him many great wonders of these
strange isles, and brought teeth of a wild boar, inconeeivably large: I assure you, he found them to weigh
fourteen pounds. You may thus judge as to the size of
the boar ; and indeed some are equal to a buffalo. There
are also giraffes and wild asses, and other beasts and
birds wonderfully different from ours. To return to
the griffon; the people .of the island do not know it
by that name, but call it always ruc; but we, from
their extraordinary size, certainly conclude them to be
griffons.Having nothing more to tell of this island,
I will go on to that of Zanghibar.

XXXVI.—Coast of Zanghibar.

This is a very great and noble island, about 2000
miles in circuit.The people are all idolaters, have
languages and a king of their own, and are subject to
no other power. They are not very tall, but so broad
and thick, that in this respect they appear like giants ;
and they are likewise immensely strong, bearing as large
a burden as four other men, which is really no wonder,
for they eat as much as five. They are perfectly black,
and go naked, with the exception of a cloth round the
waist. Their mouth is so wide, their nose so turned up,
their lips and eyes so big, that they are horrible to behold,and any one meeting them in another country
would believe them devils. Elephants abound, and a
great traffic is carried on in their teeth ; likewise lions
of a peculiar species, with ounces and leopards. In short,
they have all kinds of beasts different from others in.
the world ; including sheep entirely white, with only
the head black, and none of any other colour.Here
too is the giraffe, a most beautiful creature, whose shape
I will describe. Behind, it is low, and the legs very
short ; while those before, and the neck, are very large,
so that its head rises three paces from the ground. The
animal is small, and is quite harmless; and its colour
being red and white, in circles, it is very beautiful.t
But there is a thing which I had forgotten about the
elephant, that it caresses the female in the same manner as the human species. I must say, the women
of this island are most ugly objects; with large mouth,
eyes, and nose, and their breasts four times the ordinary size; in short, they are hideous. The people live
on rice, flesh, milk, and dates, and though they have
no vines, make a very good liquor of rice, sugar, and
spices. There is a great trade, particularly in elephants’
teeth; and a good quantity of amber. The men are
very brave in combat, and have little fear of death.
They have no horses, but fight upon camels and elephants, placing on them castles well covered, with sixteen or twenty men mounted on them, bearing lances,
swords, and staves, and making a very powerful force
in battle.They have no arms except leathern shields,
lances, and swords, with which they fight well. When
leading the elephant to the combat, they give him to
drink of their wine or liquor, which renders him more
-fierce and effective. I must now proceed to the great
province of Abascia, but first wish to say something
more of India in general.

XXXVII.—The Islands in the Indian Sea.

You must know I have described only its noblest
Kingdoms and isles; those that make the flower of
the region, and to which the rest are mostly subject.
No man could enumerate all the islands ; they are estimated at 12,700, inhabited and uninhabited, according to the writings of the most skilful mariners. In the
Greater India, which extends from Maabar to Kesmacoran, are thirteen very great kingdoms, of which I have
described ten. The Lesser India, stretching from Zinaba to Montifi, contains eight, and this is exclusive of
numerous others that are in the islands.

XXXVIII.—Kingdom of Absscia.
Abascia is a very great province, called the Middle
India.The supreme monarch isa Christian ; the other
six kings are subject to him, three being believers, and
three Saracen. The christian people of this province
have three marks upon their face, one from the forehead
to the middle of the nose, and one on each cheek, made
with a hot iron, and herein consists their baptism. There
are also Jews having a mark on each cheek, and Saracens
with only one on the forehead and nose.* The great
king lives in the middle of the province; the Saracens
towards Aden. In this district Messer St Thomas the
apostle preached, and after converting the inhabitants,
went to Maabar, where he died, and his body remains,
as formerly mentioned. This country contains many
good men-at-arms and well mounted cavalry, who
are much needed; for wars are frequent with the
Sultans of‘Adent and Nubia, and with other powers.
But I will tell you a memorable story of what happened
in the year 1288. This king, who is lord over all Abascia,
wished to go in pilgrimage to adore the sepulchre of
Christ in Jerusalem. The barons represented the danger
of the journey, and advised him to send a bishop or some
other great prelate. The monarch having agreed, one
of very holy life was chosen, who readily undertook the
mission. He was equipped most handsomely as a pilgrim, and travelled by land and sea till he arrived at
Jerusalem. Repairing to the sepulchre, he performed
the due homage before an object so exalted; and
having presented great offerings from the king, and
well fulfilled his mission, he set out on his return. He
passed through Aden, a country where Christians are
hated as mortal enemies. The governor, learning that he
professed this religion, and was a messenger of the sovereign of Abascia, warned him, that unless he embraced
the law of Mohammed, he would suffer a shameful punishment. The bishop replied, that he would sooner die.
The other, greatly enraged, ordered him to be forcibly
circumcised, and then sent him away, telling him that
this was meant as an affront to his master. The prelate
was much grieved, but consoled himself by thinking
that he had suffered for the law of his faith, and God
would recompense him in the other world. As soon
as he could travel, he proceeded to Abascia, and appeared before the king; who, having inquired about
the sepulchre, and being told the whole truth, accounted
it a most holy and pious visit. The bishop then related
the affront put upon him by the ruler of Aden, when
his majesty fell into such a transport of grief and rage,
that he almost died. He called aloud in the hearing
of all the bystanders, that he would never wear a
crown, nor rule a province, till he had taken such vengeance as should be spoken of throughout the world.
Presently he prepared a vast body of troops, on horseback and foot, also elephants with well-armed castles,
having twenty men upon each. He then set out and
marched directly onward to the territory of Aden. Its
chiefs, with a great multitude of Saracens on foot
and horseback, came to defend their country, and a
most obstinate battle was fought ; but the enemy
could not withstand the force of the King of Abascia,
because the Christians are more valiant. They ficd
and were slain in great numbers. The victor, entering
the country in three or four places, greatly wasted and
destroyed it, killing many of the inhabitants. He
then thought the affront sufficiently avenged; and indeed I must tell you he could effect no farther devastation, the region being extensive, and full of dangerous
passes, where a few men could greatly harass an army.

I will now relate other matters of Abascia, which yields
a great variety of all things necessary for subsistence.
The people live on rice, flesh, milk, and sesamum, and
have elephants, not bred there, but brought from the isle
of the other India. Giraffes, however, are in great
numbers ; also lions, leopards, ounces, wild apes, and
many beasts and birds different from ours, The domestic fowls are the most beautiful in the world ; and
the ostriches as large as asses. They have parrots, beautiful and various ; also monkeys and cats of two species,
with faces exactly like those of men. This Abascia contains numerous cities and castles, and is much frequented
by merchants; many cloths of cotton and buckram are
wrought there.I might relate other things, but must
now go on to the province of Aden.

XXXIX.—City and Kingdom of Aden.

This country is subject to a lord, called sultan. The
people are all Saracens, adoring Mohammed, and wishing
the greatest mischief to Christians. ‘There are many cities
and castles; for Aden is the port to which the Indian
ships bring all their merchandise. It is then placed on
board other small vessels, which ascend a river about
seven days, at the end of which it is disembarked, laden
on camels, and conveyed thirty days farther. It then
comes to the river of Alexandria, and is conveyed
down to that city. By this route alone its inhabitants
receive their pepper, spices, and costly goods.* From
Aden, too, ships sail for India with various goods, especially very fine and valuable horses, which, as you know,
are sold there for full a hundred marks of silver. The
sultan draws a great revenue from the duties on these
cargoes ; and is thus one of the richest princes in the
world. But, I assure you, he did great injury to the
Christians ; for when the governor of Babylonia attacked
and took the city of Acre, committing much devastation,
he was assisted by this prince with 30,000 horses and
40,000 camels. This aid was given rather out of hatred
to believers than good-will to that prince.But now
I will tell you of another great city.

XL.—City of Escier (Shaher).

Escier is a very large town to the north-west (north),
four hundred miles from Aden.A count here rules
with justice, but subject to the soldan of Aden ; and the
people are Saracens, adoring Mohammed. ‘The port is
good, frequented by many ships and merchants from
India, who bring various commodities, and carry away
others, particularly horses of great value, and yielding
large profit. In this province grows a great quantity
of fine incense, also of dates.They have no grain except rice, and little of that ; hence corn is profitably imported from other countries, Fish is caught in sach plenty, that for a Venetian gros you may purchase two
large tunnies. The people live on rice, flesh, and fish, and
have no wine except what they make from sugar, rice,
and dates. But I must tell you, too, that they have sheep
without ears, or any opening for them ; but where the
ears should be, is a little horn; these are small and
very beautiful creatures.Another thing you will much
wonder at is, that all the animals, sheep, oxen, and camels,
eat fish, because there is no grass, for it is the most
arid place in the world. These fishes are very small,
caught in March, April, and May, in wonderful quantities.
They are dried, lodged in houses, and given as food to
the animals during the whole year. The people eat them
also when quite alive and newly taken. There are also
plenty of large ones, which being made into a kind of
biscuit, by cutting them into small pieces and drying
them in the sun, are preserved under cover during the
whole year.* The incense, mentioned as so abundant,
is purchased by their lord at ten golden bezants the
cantar, and retailed to the merchants for forty, so that
he makes a very large profit. Let us now leave this city,
and tell you of Dufar.

XLI.—City of Dufar.

This is a beautiful, large, and noble city, 500 miles
south-west from Escier.The people are Saracens,
adoring Mohammed, and ruled by a count, who is subject to Aden, to which, indeed, this city belongs. The
port is very good, and merchants convey thence many
very fine Arabian horses, Numerous cities and castles depend upon it, and the country yields much incense. The
trees are about the size of a small fir, and incisions are
made with knives in various places, whence flows the
incense, which, indeed, through the great heat, often
runs out of itself. I shall now proceed to relate of the
Gulf of Calatu.

XLII.—Gulf and City of Calatu.

Calatu is a large city within the gulf of the same
name, six hundred miles north-west from Dufar.It
is a noble seaport, inhabited by Saracens, who are subject to Cormos. When the melik of that city is at war
with a more powerful prince, he retires to this place,
which is strong by nature and art, and finds himself
secure. The people have no grain but what they import.
Many ships bring the goods and spices of India, which
are distributed throughout the interior, and many fine
horses sent in return. But I must observe, that this
city is at the mouth of the Gulf of Calatu, so that the
melik can prevent vessels from sailing in or out without
hisconsent. This power he often uses against the sultan
of Creman ; for when that prince demands any exorbitant tribute from him or other vassals, they remove from
Cormos to Calatu, and allow no ships to pass, whence
the other prince suffers severely, and is obliged to abate
his demands. The people of this country live on dates
and salt fish, which are abundant ; but many rich men
are well supplied with better food.

XLIII.—Return to Cormos.

After departing from Calatu, and sailing three hundred miles between north-west and north, you find the
city of Cormos ;but if you take a direction from the
former place between north-west and north, and sail five
hundred miles, you come to Quis. However, we shall
pass over this last place, and speak of Cormos, a large and
noble capital, subject to a melik, who commands many
townsand castles. The people are Saracens, and adore
Mohammed. The heat is very great, on which account
every house is provided with ventilators placed on the
side whence the wind blows, which being thus admitted,
renders the mansion tolerably cool. We gave an account of this place formerly, as well as of Quis and
Creman, but have since made a circuit which brought
us back to it. However, we will say no more, but proceed now to the description of Great Turkey.

XLIV.—Turkestan—Wars of Kaidu.

This country lies to the north-west as you go from
Cormos to the river Gihon, extending towards the terTitory of the great khan. It is governed by a nephew
(cousin) of his, named Kaidu, grandson of Ciagatai,
brother to that monarch. He isa very powerful lord, ruling many cities and castles. His subjects are Tartars,
very able combatants, much inured to fighting, and he
does not obey the khan, but is rather at perpetual war
with him. This is because Kaidu demanded constantly
from that monarch a share of his conquests, particularly in Catai and Manji. The latter said he would
willingly grant it to him, as to his other descendants,
if he would come to his court and council whenever summoned. But the other, afraid to trust his uncle, offered
to obey him where he was, but dreaded that if in his power
he would be put to death. Hence arose this discord, and
the khan drew his forces around the realm of Kaidu to
guard against an invasion; yet that prince contrived
to penetrate, and fought repeatedly with the armies
of Kublai; for he could bring into the field 100,000
brave and skilful horsemen. He had with him also
many lords of the imperial lineage. Each soldier carries to battle sixty arrows, thirty smaller for shooting,
and thirty larger, pointed with heavy iron, to throw
against the face or arms of the enemy, or cut the cords of
his bow; and when they have discharged all these, they
lay their hand on their swords, and strike most terrible
blows. Now, in the year 1266, this king, with his cousin
named Jesudar, assembled a very great army, and
marched against two barons that were also his relations,
but held their lands from the great khan. Kaidu and
his cousin fought with these two chiefs, who had also
a very large force, so that between them there were
100,000 horsemen. They contended hardly and long,
and many fell on both sides; but at last Kaidu conquered; however, the two barons, being well mounted, escaped without injury. The victor then became
still more proud and boastful; yet he returned home
and remained two years in peace. Then he assembled a mighty host of cavalry, having learned that at
Karakorum there was a great army under Nomogan, a
son of the khan, and George, a grandson of Prester
John. He marched thither with all speed, and the two
chiefs being informed of his approach, courageously prepared to meet him with their horsemen, amounting to
upwards of 60,000. Having reached the place where
his men were ranged in tents on the plain, they skilfully established their own camp. Each party rested and
made preparations for three days, when they advanced
to the combat. There was little advantage on either
side ; both having about 60,000 mounted men well armed
at every point, divided into six squadrons of 10,000.
They waited only till they heard their lord sound the
maccar ; meantime performing loudly on various musical
instruments. At length the signal was given, when the
hosts rushed against each other, laying their hands on
their bows. The arrows filled the air like rain; men
and horses were mortally wounded ; noise and cries
arose so loud that the thunder of Jove could not have
been heard. Truly this was an evil hour for many, who
on both sides fell dead and dying. The arrows being discharged, they rushed on with sword and spear, giving and
receiving most dreadful blows. You might see arms and
hands cut off, and numbers of men rolling senseless on the
earth. Kaidu displayed signal prowess, and his soldiers
would have often been driven off the field, had he not
encouraged and rallied them. On the other side, the
two princes also firmly stood their ground, and it really
was one of the most cruel battles ever fought between
Tartar tribes. Yet though each strove with all his
might to discomfit the other, neither could succeed, and
the conflict lasted tillevening. On this fatal day, multitudes of men fell, many wives were made widows, children made orphans, and households filled with tears and
lamentations. But when the sun set, the struggle could
endure no longer, and both parties returned to their
camp overpowered with fatigue, happy to rest during the night. When morning dawned, King Kaidu,
having received intelligence that the great khan was
marching against him with a mighty host, deemed it
unsafe to remain longer. Wherefore he and all his
men mounted and rode off to their own country ; the
two princes were so exhausted, that they did not attempt
to follow, so that he with his people reached Samarcand,
the capital of his kingdom.

The great khan felt much wrath at Kaidu for committing such ravages, and bethought himself, that had
he not been his nephew, he would have seized his land
and put him to a cruel death; but regard to his own
flesh restrained him. Thus he escaped out of the hand
of the mighty monarch. But I have wonderful stories
to tell you about a daughter of this prince.

XLV.—Exploits of a Tartar Princess, Daughter to Kaidu.

This young lady was in Tartar named Aigiarm, which
means in our language “ brilliant moon.” She
such strength that none of the youths or nobles in the
whole kingdom could vanquish her, but were all beaten.
Her father wished to marry her to a baron; but she
refused ever to unite herself to any one who could not
vanquish her in fair combat; and the king granted her
this privilege. She rejoiced greatly, and published
through various parts of the world, that if any gentle
youth would come, try her in pitched battle, and gain
the victory, she would accept him for her lord. This
news was spread wide through the surrounding countries, and I assure you many gentlemen came and made
the trial, which was arranged in the following manner.
The king, with many young nobles and ladies, assembled
in the great hall of the palace, when the princess entered
in a robe of cotton richly adorned, attended by youths
similarly attired. The agreement was, that if the candidate prevailed and threw her to the ground, he should
have her for his wife; but if victory declared on her
side, he was to give her a hundred horses. Thus she had
gained above ten thousand steeds, because she could
find no youth or damosel that could overcome her ; nor
was this wonderful, for she was large, tall, and wellformed in her limbs, indeed almost a giantess. Now,
about the year 1280, there came the son of a rich king,
an extremely handsome young man, with a brilliant retinue and a thousand very fine horses. He addressed himself to Kaidu, who was very desirous of marrying him
to his daughter. He therefore caused her to be privately
dealt with, to allow herself to be conquered; but she
declared she would not do so for any thing in the world.
One day then, the king and queen, with many nobles
and ladies, assembled in the great hall; the princess
and prince then entered, and their handsome appearance struck all with wonder; he was really so strong
and powerful, that no one else could contend with him.
When they were in the middle of the hall before this
great assembly, the agreement was formally made, that
the suitor, if vanquished, should lose his thousand horses.
But all the company, as well as the king and queen,
expressed their wishes that he should be successful.
The two then rushed together, and wrestled violently,
dragging each other in different directions: but at last
the lady prevailed, and threw him on the ground, to
the great grief of all the spectators; he thus forfeited
the thousand horses. But I have to inform you, that
Kaidu led this daughter to many battles, and in no encounter could any warrior withstand her. On many
orrasions, she rushed among the enemy, seized one of
the chiefs, and dragged him over to her own army.
I will now, however, proceed to a great battle fought
between her father and Argon, the son of Abaga, lord of
the East.

XLVI.—Great Battle between Barak and Argon.

Abaga ruled many provinces bordering on those of
Kaidu, and it was where grows the tree called in the
book of Alexander the Arbor Secco.As that prince
committed great ravages on his territory, he sent his
son Argon, with a very large host of cavalry, into the
country of the Arbor Secco, to the river of Gihon, where
he took a station fitted to guard the country against the
invader. Kaidu, however, assembled a great body of
horsemen, and gave the command to a brother named
Barak, very brave and skilful, desiring him to oppose
the enemy. Barak, with his troops, rode on till they
came to the river, and were ten miles distant from Argon.
The latter, informed of the approach of his adversary,
made diligent preparation ; the two remained three
days in their respective camps. When they were
fully prepared, and the naccar began to sound, they
no longer delayed, but rushed furiously against each
other. The arrows might be seen flying on all sides, and
the air was so full of them, that it seemed to rain; and
when both parties had discharged them, and many men
as well as horses had been slain, they seized their swords
and spears, and began a most fierce and cruel combat.
Arms and legs were cut off, chargers killed, and many
dreadful wounds inflicted ; the noise and cries were such
as would have drowned the loudest thunder. I assure
you, in a few hours the ground was covered with dead
and dying. Finally, Barak and his men could not endure
the force of their adversary, and retreated across the
river ; while the victor pursued and killed a great number.Thus Argon gained the day ; and having begun to
speak of him, I will relate his other adventures, and how
he became sovereign lord after the death of Abaga, his
father.

XLVII.—Argon and Acomat contend for the Persian Empire.

Not long after Argon had gained this battle, he received news of the death of Abaga. He was much
grieved, yet prepared with his whole host to return to the
court, and take possession of the sovereignty ; but he
had forty days to march before arriving there. Nowa
brother of the deceased monarch, named Acomat Soldan,
who had become a Saracen, having heard of the event,
bethought himself, that since the heir was so distant, he
himself might succeed. Having prepared a large body
of men, he marched directly to the capital, and seized the
supreme power. He found such an amount of treasure,
that it could scarcely be counted. He lavished his
bounty in a wonderful manner on the chiefs and barons,
who declared him a good master, liked him, and
wished for no other. He studied to be popular, and to
please all men; yet the action he had committed was
vile, and blamed by many. It was not long till he
learned that Argon was marching against him with a
very powerful force. He made no delay, nor showed
surprise, but actively summoned his barons and troops ;
and in a week he had assembled a numerous body of
cavalry, who all marched cheerfully against Argon, expressing their earnest desire to kill or take him.
Soldan Acomat having thus assembled 60,000 horsemen, set out and marched full ten days without interruption, when he learned that Argon, with an equal
force, was five days’ journey distant. He pitched his
camp and awaited the enemy in a large and beautiful
plain, which seemed well adapted for the combat. He
then summoned his people, and thus addressed them :—
“ My lords, you know how well I am entitled to succeed my brother, being son of the same father, and having
accompanied him in all his conquests. Because Argon
is son to Abaga, some think he ought to succeed ; but
with all due respect to them, I consider this unjust.
Even during my brother’s life, I was reasonably entitled
to half the kingdom, only through my mildness I allowed him the whole, but now I ought to succeed. I
pray you then to defend my right against Argon, and
preserve to us the rule; for I seek only the name and
dignity, and leave to you the profit and possession of all.
I need say no more to wise men, who love justice, and
will do all things for the general honour and benefit.”
‘When the barons, chiefs, and soldiers heard this speech,
they declared with one consent their resolution to adhere to him while they had breath, and defend him against
all, and particularly Argon, whom they trusted they
would capture and place in his hands.

When that prince learned that his rival was waiting for
him with so great a multitude, he was much discomposed ;
he considered, however, how injurious it would be to show
melancholy or fear, and the necessity of displaying valourand boldness. He sent for his lords and counsellors,
and having assembled a great number, thus addressed
them :—“ My dear brothers and friends, you know well
how tenderly my father loved you, regarding you while
he lived as kindred and children ; also how many great
battles you fought with him, aiding him to conquer all
his kingdom. Now I am the son of him who loved you
so much, and to me you are equally dear; I therefore
trust you will aid me against the man who seeks, contrary to all right and reason, to disinherit me. Consider
also, that he has forsaken our law and embraced that of
Mohammed ; it were fitting indeed that a Saracen should
rule over the Tartar nation! Therefore, friends and
brothers, I trust that you will willingly and heartily
support me, and that each will display such valour,
that the battle may be ours, and we may comfort ourselves by thinking that the right is on our side.” After
this speech, each lord and chief thought to himself, that
he ought rather to die than not strenuously endeavour to
gain atriumph. While the rest were silent, one great
lord arose and said :—‘“ Noble sire, we know fully the
truth of what you have said, and I will now answer in
the name of all now present, that while life remains in
our bodies, we are ready to die rather than fail to conquer. Victory, too, appears to us certain, since we are
so greatly in the right, and our enemies in the wrong.
I advise, then, that we march as soon as possible against
the foe, and pray all our companions to display such
valour, that their deeds may be spoken of over the whole
world.” That brave man having concluded, all present
assented, and eagerly desired battle. Next morning, Argon
and his troops began their march, riding towards the
plain on which their enemies were posted, and pitched
their camp ten miles distant from that of Acomat.
Argon now chose two intelligent men, in whom he
greatly confided, and sent them to his uncle. They
mounted on horseback, went direct, and alighted at the
pavilion of the soldan, whom they found with a numerous company of barons. Being well acquainted, they
saluted him courteously, and received a cheerful welcome. After some time, one of them rose and said,—
“Noble sire, your nephew Argon wonders greatly at
your seizing his kingdom, and coming thus to fight
against him. This is not good conduct, nor due from
an uncle towards a nephew; he therefore courteously
prays you to abstain, and desiring neither war nor quarrel, will respect you as superior and father, both of himself and of the whole country.” Acomat answered,—
‘My lords messengers, my nephew is entirely mistaken ; the land is mine, I conquered it along with his
father. If he will consent, I will make him a great
lord, endowing him with spacious estates, treating him
as my son and the highest under myself; otherwise, be
assured, I will endeavour to put him to death.” The
envoys then asked repeatedly, if they could hope for
no other determination. He replied, never in his lifetime. They then departed, and rode to the camp of
their lord, alighted at the tent, and told him his uncle’s
declaration.Argon was greatly enraged, and said aloud
in the hearing of all, that he would never live in comfort
till the whole world had seen the signal vengeance he
would take on his uncle. He said to his chiefs,—“ Now
let us without further delay march against these traitors
and endeavour to destroy them.” The night was spent
in busy preparation ; and Acomat Soldan, being warned
by his spies, was equally active.

XLVIII.—Great Battle between them.

Next day Argon, having made all his arrangements,
advanced in good order; while his antagonist, not waiting
his arrival, led on his troops to the encounter. They
soon met, and the two great hosts, who had much desired the battle, rushed without delay against each other.
Arrows flew like rain, chiefs fell to the ground, the
air resounded with the cries and lamentations of the
wounded and dying. Their arrows being exhausted, they
rushed on with swords and spears; arms, hands, and
heads were cut off, and the noise would have drowned
the loudest thunder, In that day many brave men
died, and many ladies were left disconsolate. Argon
assuredly displayed great prowess, and set a gallant example ; but in vain,—fortune turned against him,—his
men, compelled to flee, were pursued and slain in great
numbers.. Among the fugitives, he himself was captured, when the pursuers stopped and returned with him
to their camp, rejoicing beyond measure. Acomat caused
him to be imprisoned and carefully guarded ; then, being of a voluptuous disposition, he returned to court to
enjoy the society of his numerous and handsome wives.
He instructed the commander of the host to guard the
captive as himself, and return at leisure that his troops
might not be fatigued. He then departed, while Argon
remained in chains, and so grieved, that death appeared
to him desirable.

XLIX.—Final Issue of the Contest.

Now there was a great and aged Tartar baron, who
felt much pity for the prisoner, and bethought him how
wicked it was to keep their lord in this condition. He
resolved, therefore, to attempt his deliverance. He argued to this effect with many other chiefs, who, esteeming his wisdom, and conscious that he spake the truth,
entirely agreed with him. Then Boga, who had made
the proposal, Elcidai, Togan, Tegana, Taga, Tiar Oulatai, and Samagar, all went to the tent of the captive
prince. The first, asthe eldest and the leader, addressed
him thus,—“ Noble prince, we are now fully sensible
of having acted wickedly towards you, and have determined to return to the right path; we will therefore
deliver and own you as justly our liege lord.” Argon,
who thought they were mocking him, was both grieved
and angry. “ My lords,” said he, “ you have done
wrong enough in seizing your sovereign and making
him a captive. Pray depart, and do not also make him
a subject of mockery.” “ Illustrious prince,” said Boga,
“ we positively speak the truth, and will make oath to
it according to our law.” Then all the barons swore
that they would obey him as their lord, while he in
return bound himself in no degree to resent past wrongs,
but hold each of them as dear as Abaga his father had
done. They then freed him from his chains, and did
homage to him. He now ordered them to discharge their
arrows against the tent of the melic; and that chief,
named Soldan, who was the first after Acomat, and the
commander of the whole host, was quickly slain.
Finding himself thus lord of all, he gave orders to
march to the court, and was instantly obeyed. One day,
thereafter, when Acomat was holding a splendid festival
in his palace, a messenger came to him and said,—“ Sire,
I bring you with regret unwelcome tidings ; the barons
have delivered Argon, owned him as lord, and killed
Soldan your faithful friend. They are coming now with
their utmost speed to take and slay you.” He was then
silent, but the other was completely amazed and terrified.
However, as a bold and brave man, he ordered the messenger not to say a word to a living creature; then
mounting on horseback, set out with a few trusty servants, to seek refuge with the Sultan of Babylon, leaving all in ignorance whither he had gone. After marching six days, he came to the only pass by which he
could penetrate. The commander who guarded it knew
him, and seeing him fleeing with only a few adherents,
determined to seize him, Acomat entreated for mercy,
and offered a great treasure as the price of liberty ; but
the other, being greatly attached to Argon, replied that
the wealth of the world would not prevent his placing
him in his master’s hands. He prepared a large company, and set out with his captive, watching him so
carefully as to make escape impossible. They rode on
to the court, where Argon had arrived only three days
before, and been much vexed to find that his uncle had
escaped ; but when the guardian of the pass brought the
fugitive before his presence, he felt the greatest possible
joy. He received the latter sternly, telling him that
he would meet with the treatment he deserved; and
without asking any one’s advice, he commanded him to
be led forth and slain, This mandate was speedily executed, and the body was thrown into a place where it
was never seen more.Thus have you heard the whole
affair of Argon and of Acomat his uncle.

L.—Reign of Argon.

Argon was thus master of the palace andof the kingdom,
and the barons from every quarter came to render him
due homage and obedience. After governing some time,
he sent Casan his son with 30,000 men, to the country of the Arbor Secco, there to guard and secure his
land and people. Argon began his reign in the year
1286, after Acomat had ruled two years. The former,
after holding the sceptre six years, died, not without
strong suspicions of poison.

LI.—Reign of Quiacatu.

When Argon was dead, his uncle, named Quiacatu,
brother to Abaga, immediately seized the throne, which
was easily effected, as Casan was distant at the Arbor
Secco. The latter, when informed of these eyents,
was much grieved at the death of his parent, and still
more incensed at Quiacatu having seized his inheritance.
He was afraid, however, to march at once against him,
but resolved, that at the proper time and place he would
take as signal vengeance as his father had done on Acomat.Thus Quiacatu obtained general obedience, except
over the troops whom Casan immediately commanded.
He married the wife of Argon his nephew, and indulged
largely in the pleasures of the seraglio. At the end of
two years, however, his death ensued, being occasioned
by poison.

LII.—Contest between Baidu and Ghazan.

Baidu, his uncle, and aChristian, then seized the sovereignty, and was generally obeyed, unless by Casan and
hisarmy. The latter, on learning these things, regretted
much that he had not been able to punish Quiacatu, but
determined to take such vengeance on Baidu, that the
world might admire it. He marched without delay against
that chief, who, informed of his approach, assembled a
great force, and marched ten days’ journey to meet him,
when he encamped, and awaited his adversary, earnestly
exhorting and encouraging his troops. In two days Casan came up, and immediately a battle began, most bloody
and desperate ; but it was vain for Baidu to struggle,
since, as soon as the contest commenced, many of his
men went over and fought on the side of his opponent.
He was accordingly discomfited, and killed. Casan,
thus victorious, immediately marched to court and assumed the sovereignty, when all the barons paid him
homage and obedience ; and this was in the year 1294.*
Thus have you heard the whole train of affairs from
Abaga down to Casan. You must likewise know that
Alau, who conquered Bagdad, and was brother to Kublai,
was ancestor to all the princes now named ; for he was
the father of Abaga, grandfather of Argon, who was
the parent of Casan, now reigning. Having told you
all about these Tartars of the East, I might go on to
treat of Great Turkey ; but the truth is, I have done so
already, mentioning all the acts of Kaidu, so that I have
nothing more to say, and shall therefore now tell you of
the provinces and people that lie to the northward.

LIII.—Of Conci and his Northern Kingdom.

In this quarter isa king named Conci. He and all
his people are Tartars, and adhere to the rudest and most
brutal customs of that nation, never having changed
since the time of Gengis Khan.They have a god of
felt, named Nacigai, to whom they also give a wife,
calling these two lords of the earth, who guard all their
corn, beasts, and landed property ; and when they get
any victuals, they anoint with them the mouth of these
deities. The king is independent, being of the imperial
lineage of Gengis, and a near relation of the great khan.
He has neither cities nor castles, but his people reside
in vast plains, diversified with valleys and mountains.
They are very submissive to him, and he successfully
studies to preserve among them peace and union.* They
have no grain, but live on milk and cattle, which
abound, including camels, horses, oxen, sheep, and other
animals. There are also bears, white all over, and longer
than twenty palms, with foxes, large and black ; likewise
a great number of sables, whose costly skins I have
mentioned as worth each a thousand bezants. The rats
of Pharaoh are plentiful, and very large, affording food
to the people during the whole summer. In short, all
kinds of wild beasts abound in this savage and. trackless region. I must also mention, that this king has a
country in which horses cannot travel, on account of the
numerous lakes and fountains, and the quantity of ice
and mud. This rugged tract extends thirteen days’
journey, and at the end of each is a post-house to accom
modate the messengers, with about forty dogs, almost as
large as asses, to convey them from one post to the other.
As wheeled carriages cannot travel here, they employ
sledges, so formed as to move over the surface without
sinking ; such, indeed, as are used in this country to convey hay and straw when there is great rain and mud. On
the sledge is spread a bear’s skin, whereon the messenger
sits, and the dogs drag it direct to the following post. The
guardian mounts a similar carriage, and guides him by
the best and nearest way. At the next post, they find
another relay of sledges and dogs, and the one which
conveyed them returns. The men dwelling in this wild
country are very expert hunters, capturing many precious
little animals, such as sables, ermines, and black foxes,
whose skins yield a large profit. They have engines so
well contrived that no animal can escape. But owing
to the extreme cold, all their habitations are under
ground.Having nothing more to mention, we shall
depart and treat of a place where there is perpetual
twilight.

LIV.—The Region of Obscurity.

You must know, that beyond this kingdom is a province called Obscurity, because there never appears either
sun, moon, or star; but it is always dark, as with us
during twilight.The people have no ruler, but live
like brutes. The Tartars, however, make occasional in
roads in the following manner:—They ride on mares that
have just brought forth foals, which last are left at the
border. They then traverse the country, plundering
whatever they can find ; and when they wish to return,
the mares, seeking to find their young, know the way
better than the riders.The people are all hunters, and
take. great numbers of sables, black foxes, and other
animals with costly furs. Those on their frontier meet
them at a fixed period, purchase these skins, and sell
them elsewhere with an ample profit. These people are
tall and well made, but pale and colourless. The territory borders on one side upon Great Russia, of which I
shall now proceed to speak.

LV.—Description of Russia and several adjacent Countries.

Russia is a very great province towards the north,
inhabited by Christians, who follow the Greek Church.
They have languages of their own, and several kings.
They are a very simple people, but extremely handsome, with a faircomplexion. The entrances and passes
into it are very strong ; they own some small allegiance
to the Tartar king of the West, named Toctai. The
country yields few commodities, except an abundance
of the furs already described, equal to any in the world.
There are considerable silver mines. But now let us
leave it, and describe the Greater Sea, with the provinces
around. But first let me tell you of a province lying
between north and north-west, and bordering on Russia,
named Lac, inhabited by a mixture of Christians and
Saracens, and subject to a king. The people carry on
merchandise and manufactures, and have a vast variety
also of valuable furs.t But now I must go back to
Russia, and mention something that I had forgot. It
is so very extensive as to reach the ocean, where are
isles on which pilgrim-falcons and gerfalcons are found,
and carried to various parts of the world. Now from
Russia to Oroech is no great distance ; but the extreme
cold renders the journey very difficult.This would
be the time to speak of the Strait of Constantinople and
the mouth of the Great Sea; but on considering that
many others have written on the subject, we shall omit
them, and proceed to treat of the Tartars of the West,
and the lords by whom they are ruled.

LVI.—Succession of Western Tartar Princes.

The first lord of these Tartars was Sain, a very great
and powerful king. He conquered Russia, Comania,
Alania, Lac, Mengiar, Zic, Gucia, and Gazaria. The inhabitants had all been Comanian ; but having no unity
or connexion, lost their country, and were driven into
various parts of the world, while those who remained
became servants of this conqueror. After him reigned
successively Patu, Barka, Mungletemur, Totamongur,
and Toctai, the present sovereign.Having thus recounted the kings of the Western Tartars, I will now
describe a great battle fought between Alau, lord of
the East, and Barka, lord of the West, with the occasion
which led to it.

LVII.—Dispute between Barka and Hoolaku.

You must know that about the year 1261 there arose
a great discord between these two monarchs. It was
about a province on their respective frontier which each
desired and would not yield, but resolved to seize it
and see who would oppose him. Thereupon they declared war, summoned their respective subjects, and
made the greatest preparation almost ever known. I
assure you, in six months each had assembled full 300,000
horsemen, well provided with every warlike implement.
Alau, lord of the East, then set out with all his troops,
and having rode many days, reached a wide plain between the Iron Gates and the Sea of Sarain. There he
pitched his camp, which, I have heard, contained many
rich tents, and made a splendid appearance. Being here
on the frontier, he resolved to wait, and see if Barka
would come. That prince having completed his preparations, and learned the approach of his foe, without
delay began his march. He rode on till he came to
the great plain where his enemy was posted, and pitched his camp at ten miles’ distance. I declare to you, it
was fully as beautiful as that of Alau, filled with tents
and pavilions of cloth of gold. His army, too, was more
numerous, amounting, without a lie, to 350,000 horsemen.They rested two days in their tents, when Barka
thus addressed his men :—“ Noble chiefs, you know
how, since coming to the sovereignty, I have loved you
as brothers and sons; you have accompanied me in
many great battles, and aided in conquering much territory. Alau, a great and powerful prince, proposes
wrongfully to fight against us; but having the right on
our side, we may confidently expect to conquer, especially since our army is more numerous. In this confidence, then, noble chiefs, and having come so far for
battle, let us prepare in three days to engage, arranging
so wisely, and displaying such valour, that our fame
may spread over the world.” He was then silent ; and we
must now return to his antagonist, who, when he heard
of his adversary’s arrival with so great an army, assembled his principal men and said :—“ Noble brethren and
friends, you have throughout all my life supported and
aided me, enabling me to conquer in many battles; nor
indeed ever fighting one in which we were not victorious. We have come here to combat the great Barka,
who indeed has as many and even more troops ; but ours
are braver, and I feel confident of victory. I rejoice,
then, to hear by the spies, that he is coming to give us
battle in three days, and I expect every one to be well
prepared, with his accustomed bravery, rather to die on
the field with honour, than to suffer disgrace and discomfiture.”

LVIII.—Great Battle between them.

On the appointed day Alau rose early, summoned his
men to arms, and ranged them very skilfully in order of
battle. He formed thirty squadrons, each containing
10,000 horsemen, making in all the number of 300,000,
with able leaders and captains. By his order his
squadrons then advanced at a moderate pace over the
plain, till they arrived mid-way between the two camps,
where they stopped and awaited the enemy. On the
same morning, Barka similarly arranged his men, forming thirty-five squadrons of 10,000 each, with good
officers and commanders. He then made his troops ride
forward to within half a mile of the enemy, when
they halted, and again proceeded till the hosts, being
within two bow-shots of each other, stopped and arranged their squadrons. The plain was the largest
and finest in all that country ; which, assuredly, was
very necessary to afford a field of battle for such mighty
armies, amounting to 650,000 men. Indeed Alau and
Barka were the most powerful princes in the world, and
were near relations too,—being both of the imperial
lineage of Gengis Khan.

The two great kings with all their troops being thus
marshalled, impatiently waited for the naccar as a signal
of battle. When it sounded, the armies rushed forward
and discharged arrows against each other. The air was
filled, and the sky became invisible; numbers of men
and horses fell to the earth, which was covered with dead
and dying. The arrows being exhausted, they struck
dreadful blows with swords and spears ; assuredly there
had not for a long time been a battle in the world
fought by such numerous armies. Alau, most brave and
powerful in arms, showed himself this day worthy of
ruling a kingdom and wearing a crown. He displayed
signal prowess in his own person, and by his example
infused extraordinary courage into his men. His
achievements, indeed, astonished both friends and enemies ; he appeared, not aman, but thunder and tempest.
Barka, too, fought most bravely, and made himeelf
worthy of the admiration of the whole world ; but it
was all in vain ; his men were either killed, or so overwhelmed and exhausted, that they could endure no
longer. When evening arrived, they fied with their
utmost speed. The victor and his troops rapidly pursued, and after committing dreadful slaughter returned,
threw aside their arms, and had their wounds washed and
dressed. They were, indeed, quite overpowered and
exhausted. The night was spent in repose, and next
day he ordered all the dead bodies both of friends and
enemies to be burned. He then returned into his country with all the troops who survived the battle; for I
assure you, although he conquered, he had lost a vast
number, yet still more had fallen on the opposite side.
Having told you thus of Alau and his victory, we shall go
on to treat of a battle between the Tartars of the west.

LIX.—Controversy beineet the Tartar Princes, Toctai and
jogai.

You must know that in this quarter the great lord
of the Tartars was named Mongutemur, and he was suoceeded by Tolobuga, a very young man. Tofimangu,
a powerful chief, aided by a king named Nogai,killed
that prince and succeeded to the sovereignty. He
died, however, soon after, and in his room was elected
Toctai, a very wise and able chief. Meantime, two sons
of the slain monarch having grown up to manhood,
and being wise and prudent, assembled a large body of
troops, and marched to the court of Toctai. They went
and threw themselves on their knees before him, when
he bid them welcome, and desired them to rise. The
two youths then stood up, when the eldest began to
speak thus :— Noble sire, we come as sons of Totamangu, who was killed by Tolobuga and Nogai.The
former being dead, we can say nothing ; but we seek
vengeance on Nogai, and pray that you, as his rightful
lord, make him appear and account for the death of our
father.” The youth was then silent, and Toctai, feeling that he had spoken truth, replied,—* My noble
friend, I will willingly do what you ask.” He then
sent two messengers with this injunction to Nogai, who
laughed at it, and positively refused to come. They rode
back and reported this answer, when their master, much
enraged, said in the hearing of all around him,—“ If
God aid me, either Nogai shall obey my mandate, or I will
march with all my men to destroy him.” He then sent
two other messengers, who rode to the court of the Tartar,
presented themselves, and saluted him, He bid them
welcome, when one of them said,—"Noble sire, Toctai
gives warning, that unless you come to his court to account
for your conduct to the sons of Totamangu, he will march
against you with all his people, and do you all the injury
in his power ; therefore be careful what you do in this
business, and what message you send.” The other wrathfully replied,—"Gentlemen, return to your lord, and
tell him from me, that I little dread the threatened
war, and am ready to come and meet him half-way.”
The messengers, on hearing this speech, without delay
set out, and rode till they came to their master, and
told him all that Nogai had said. Seeing that war was
inevitable, he immediately sent his messengers to all his
subjects, and summoned them to prepare and march
against his adversary. And what shall I say! He assembled the greatest armament in the world. When the
Tartar prince heard this, he also made great preparations ;
but his people being less numerous, he could not assemble
an equal army; however it was very powerful.

When Toctai was fully ready to take the field, he set
out, leading with him, I assure you, two hundred thousand horsemen. He rode on to the large and beautiful
plain of Nerghi, and there pitched his camp. Hither also
came the two sons of Totamangu, with a noble company of men, to avenge the death of their father. Now
jet us turn to Nogai, who on learning his approach set.
out with all his troops, and, without doubt, they were upwards of 150,000 horsemen, all good and valiant, better
men at arms than those of the enemy. Two days after,
he arrived and pitched his camp at ten miles distance.
On both sides were seen very rich tents and pavilions of
cloth of gold, fully displaying the wealth of these kings.
They then waited a short time on the plain for refreshment and repose.

LX.—Great Battle.

Toctar now assembled his people, and spoke as follows :—“ My lords, we have come to fight King Nogai, and with great reason, since all this feud and enmity have arisen from his not coming to account for his conduct
to the sons of Totamangu. Since then his behaviour is
thus unreasonable, we must feel good courage and hope
of conquest ; and I earnestly pray that each man be valiant, and strive to carry destruction and death among the
enemy.” The other, too, thus addressed his men :—
"Noble friends and brethren, you know how many great
and hard battles we have gained, and against better men
than now oppose us; therefore you may feel assured of
victory. Besides, we are fully in the right, and he in
the wrong ; for, as you know well, he is not my lord,
nor entitled to call me to his court to give an account to
others, I say no more, but pray every one to perform
such exploits, that the whole world may admire them,
and your name may always strike terror.” The two
kings, having thus spoken, made no delay in forming
their order of battle. The first drew out twenty squadrons, and his enemy fifteen, of 10,000 men each, with
good captains and conductors. Having rode on to within
bow-shots, and the naccar having sounded, they rushed
forward and discharged their arrows, when many horses
and riders fell dead, loud cries arose, and tears were
shed. Afterwards they all advanced with sword and
spear ; hands, heads, and arms were cut off ; knights fell
dead and wounded to the earth ; the cries, noise, and clashing of arms, would have drowned the loudest thunder.
Never almost was there a battle in which such numbers
fell ; but the greater loss was on the side of Toctai, for
his adversary had better men-at-arms. The two sons of
Totamangu displayed great prowess, striving to the utmost to avenge the death of their father; but it was in
vain. The battle, in short, was most bloody and dreadful; many who in the morning were alive and vigorous,
during the day fell slain, and many happy wives were
made widows. Toctai strove with all his might to support his people and his honour, and displayed indeed a
prowess worthy to be praised by the whole world. He
rushed amid the enemy like one that cared nothing for
life or death, striking to right and left, rescuing his
people when seized or taken. He did much injury that
day both to enemies and friends; of the one he killed a
vast number, and the other, from his example, derived
boldness to push against their foe, and thus met instant
death. Nogai, on his side, equally acted the hero; he
rushed among theenemy asthe lion does among other wild
beasts, casting down and killing all whom he encountered. He threw himself among the thickest of the foe, and
all fled before him like weak and timid animals. His
troops emulated his valour ; but why make a long story !
The people of Toctai did every thing possible to support
their honour, though in vain, for they had too good
and stout men to deal with. They had suffered so much
as to make it evident that if they remained they would
all perish. They therefore took to flight as quickly as
they could, the victor with his troops pursuing and killing them in great numbers. Thus have you heard how
Nogai gained the battle, and be assured there died in it
60,000 men ; but the other king escaped, as well as the
two sons of Totamangu.

LXI.—Conclusion.

You have now been informed of all the actions of the
Tartars and Saracens, of their customs, and of other
countries throughout the world, so far as they could be
searched out and discovered. We have only declined
saying any thing of the Black Sea and the surrounding
provinces, although we fully explored them, because it
would seemingly have been useless, and a repetition of
what others relate every day. The Venetians, the Genoese, the Pisans, and many other nations, are continually navigating it, so that every one knows the bordering countries. You have been informed in a chapter at
the beginning, of our departure from the great khan,
and the trouble and solicitation which Maffio, Nicolo,
and Marco had in obtaining his permission. You have
learned also the accident whereby it was procured,
without which we should have found it very difficult to
return into our country. But I believe it was the pleasure of God, that they might make known the great
things that are in the world, and, as formerly declared
in the preface, there never was a man, either Christian
or Saracen, or Tartar or Pagan, who explored so much
of the world as did Marco, the son of Nicolo Polo, that
noble and great citizen of Venice.Deo Gratias. Amen,
Amen.
