The city of Kambalu contains, inclusive of Christians, Saracens, and Kataians, about 5000 astrologers and soothsayers, whom the emperor provides with food and clothing, as he does the poor families; and they are constantly practising their art. They have astrolabes, on which are delineated the planetary signs, the hours of passing the meridian, and their successive aspects during the whole year. The astrologers of each separate sect annually examine their respective tables, to ascertain thence the course of the heavenly bodies, and their relative positions for every lunation. From the paths and configurations of the planets in the several signs, they foretell the state of the weather and the peculiar phenomena which are to occur in each month. In one, for instance, there will be thunder and storms; in another earthquakes; ina third violent lightning and rain ; in a fourth pestilence, mortality, war, discord, conspiracy. What they find in their astrolabes they predict, adding, however, that God may at his pleasure do either more or less than they have announced.  Their annual prophecies are written on small squares called takuini, which are sold at a moderate price to all persons anxious to search into futurity. Those whose announcements prove more generally correct are accounted the most perfect masters of their art, and consequently held in the highest honour. When any one projects a great work, a long journey for commercial purposes, or any other undertaking, the probable success of which he is desirous to learn, he goes to one of these astrologers, informs him of the time at which he intends to set out, and inquires what aspect the heavens then exhibit. The astrologer replies, that before he can answer, he must be informed of the year, month, and hour of his nativity, on learning which he examines how the constellation that was then in the ascendant corresponds with the aspect of the celestial bodies at the time of the ‘inquiry. Upon this comparison he founds his prediction as to the favourable or unfavourable issue of the enterprise.  The Tartars compute time by a cycle of twelve years, the first of which they name the lion ; the second, the ox; the third, the dragon ; the fourth, the dog; and so on till all the twelve have elapsed. When any one,therefore, is asked the year in which he was born, he answers, it was in that of the lion, on such a day, and at such an hour and minute; all of which had been carefully noted in a book. When the years of the cycle are completed, they begin again with the first, and constantly go over the same round.