When you have rode thirty days through this desert, you find a city named Sacchion,which belongs to the khan, The province is called Tangut,and the people are idolaters, mixed with some Nestorian Christians and Saracens. The first have languages of their own ; they subsist not by merchandise, but by the grain which they produce from the earth. They have many abbeys and monasteries, all full of idols of various shapes, to which they offer frequent sacrifices and homage. Every man who has children rears a sheep, and at a particular festival at the end of the year, leads them along with that animal into the presence of the god, to whom they all perform reverence. They cook the sheep and offer it very humbly before the idol, leaving it while they make their prayers for the safety of their children. They then take the meat and carry it to the house, or wherever they please, send for their relations, and eat it with great joy and respect. They afterwards collect the bones, and preserve them with much diligence. You must know likewise, that when any one of them dies, his body is burned, and after he is carried to the place for this last ceremony, they erect in the middle of the path a house of cane, covered with cloths of silk and gold. When the dead man is laid before this ornamented house, they place before him wine and victuals, believing that he will be similarly honoured in the other world. At the place of burning, too, they cut in paper, men, horses, camels, and coins of the size of bezarits, convinced that the deceased will possess all these things in the future state. On this occasion, all the instruments in the land are sounded before the corpse. I must tell you, too, that after death the relations send for the astrologer, who is informed of the day, month, and year of his nativity, and then divines, by his diabolical art, the day on which the burning ought to take place. If it should be a week, a month, or six months, they keep it all that time, and never burn it till the appointed day. During this interval, they deposit it in a large box covered with cloth, and so preserved with crocus and other spices that no stench arises. Throughout this period, they place daily before the box meat and drink, and leave it there for some time, till they think he has eaten it. These sorcerers, too, often tell the relations that the dead body must not be carried out by the main door, but by a private one, or even through a breach made in the wall. All the idolaters in the world proceed in this manner. Now I must go to another city which lies to the south, near the extremity of this desert.