The Tartars are good men-at-arms in battle, capable of much endurance; and they can go through more warlike toil than other men. Often, when necessary, one of them will remain a month without any food, except the milk of a mare and the flesh of animals killed by him in hunting, his horse feeding on the grass, without his needing to bring barley or straw. He is very obedient to his master, and when necessary will remain the whole night armed on horseback. They are the men in the world most capable of enduring fatigue and trouble, subsisting at the least expense, and best fitted for conquering lands and kingdoms. They arrange their armies in the following manner. When a Tartar lord goes to war, he has with him 100,000 men. He places a chief over every ten, every hundred, every thousand, every ten thousand, so that each officer, even the commander of the hundred thousand, has to deal only with ten persons; for he gives his orders to the chiefs of ten thousand, they to those of one thousand, they to those of a hundred ; and thus every man answers to his captain. The hundred thousand is called a tut, and ten thousand a toman.When the armies are marching through plains and mountains, they send 200 men two days in advance, also behind and on each side, so that they cannot he attacked by surprise. And when they are marching a long way they carry no baggage, but merely two large leathern bags, in which they put their milk, and a little earthen pot for cooking their victuals. They take a small tent, under which they remain during rain. And I tell you also, that when necessary they ride full ten days without food, and without lighting a fire; but piercing a vein of their horse, they drink his blood. They have likewise their milk dried into a species of paste, which, when about to use, they stir till it becomes liquid and can be drunk. When they go to battle with their enemies, they conquer in this manner: they apparently betake themselves to a shameful flight, for they have so trained their horses that they turn round and round like dogs. And when they are fleeing and hotly pursued, they fight as well as when they face the enemy ; for in their swiftest flight they wheel about and discharge their arrows, which kill both men and horses of the opposite army, who, when they think their adversaries discomfited and vanquished, fall themselves one after the other. When the Tartars have thus made a great slaughter, they turn and rush on so violently, that they soon gain a complete triumph. All that I have told you here applies to the genuine Tartars ; but they are now much altered ; those who live in Cathay have adopted the manners and customs of the idolaters ; those in the Levant imitate the Saracens.I have said nothing here of the mighty acts of the great khan, the sire of all the Tartars, nor of his splendid imperial court ; for these wonderful things are described elsewhere in this book. But let us now return to our route on the great plain where we were when we began to speak of their actions.