This is in a small town of Maabar, containing few inhabitants, and seldom visited by merchants, there being little trade, and the roads difficult. Many Christians and Saracens, however, resort thither in pilgrimage: the latter esteem him a great saint, and even assert that he wasa Mohammedan. But I will now relate awonder. The Christians, who repair to that shrine, take from the place a red earth, carry it into their country, and give a small portion to any person sick of a fever, who is presently cured. But I have now a miracle to tell ; for about the year 1288, a baron of this district had a great quantity of rice, and filled with it all the houses around the church. The pilgrims having thus no place to lodge, prayed him much to desist ; but being fierce and proud, he paid no regard to their entreaty. Next night, accordingly, Messer St Thomas appeared to him with a fork in his hand, which he thrust forcibly against his throat, causing severe pain, and saying, “ If you do not forthwith empty my houses, you shall die an evil death.” He disappeared, and the baron rose early in the morning, related the apparition, and caused all the buildings to be emptied. The Christians greatly rejoiced, and honoured this great apostle. I could relate other wonderful cures effected on persons labouring under various bodily infirmities; but I will now merely describe his death. He had left his hermitage in the wood, and was engaged in prayer, while around were a number of peacocks, which are more numerous here than elsewhere in the world. Now an idolatrous Gaui, aiming at one of these birds, let fly an arrow without seeing the saint, whom, however, it struck on the right side ; and finding himself thus wounded, he very mildly adored his Creator, and soon after expired. But before coming hither, he had converted many people in Nubia,as I will afterwards narrate.  When a child in this province is born, they anoint him every day with the oil of sesamé, which makes him become blacker than at birth; for whoever ix most deeply tinted is honoured in proportion. Indeed, these people paint their god and all their idols black, and their devils white as snow. The men, when they go to battle, place such faith in the ox as a holy thing, that they take the hair of the wild bull, and if they fight on a horse, attach it to the neck ; if on foot, to their shield ; thinking themselves thus better secured against every danger. Hence, the hair of this animal sells at a considerable price.