After departing from Maabar, and going south-west 500 miles, you arrive at Coilon.The people are idolaters, yet among them are Christians and Jews. They have languages of their own, and a king tributary to no one. In this territory grows extremely good brazil-wood, called coilomin. Pepper greatly abounds, being collected in the months of May, June, and July; the trees are carefully planted and irrigated. Indigo also is very plentiful and good, being made of an herb which they place in a great vessel, then pour in water, and leave it till the juice is given out. Being then placed in the hot sun, it boils, acquires consistence, and becomes what we see. In this country the heat of the sun can scarcely be endured ; if you put an egg into any river, it will be boiled before you have gone any great distance. Hither resort many merchants from Manji, Arabia, and the Levant, bringing quantities of goods, and carrying away those of the country. There are various animals different from all others in the world; such as a black lion, without either spot or mark ; parrots of nu-_ merous kinds, some white as snow, with red beak and feet ; others red and white, most lovely ; and some extremely small, and also very beautiful. The peacocks are much larger, handsomer, and of a different species from ours. The domestic fowls are also peculiar; in short, they have all things, fruits, beasts, and birds, dissimilar to ours, and both handsomer and better. They have no grain but rice, and make a wine from sugar, which is good, and intoxicates sooner than that from grapes. Every thing necessary to support life abounds. Here are a number of skilful astrologers and physicians, who know how to preserve the human body in health. Both sexes are completely black, and wear no covering except a fine cloth about the middle.Their behaviour to each other shows little sense of propriety. A man will marry his cousin-german, the widow of his father, and even of his brother ; this is the custom among all the people of India.