You must know that in this quarter the great lord of the Tartars was named Mongutemur, and he was suoceeded by Tolobuga, a very young man. Tofimangu, a powerful chief, aided by a king named Nogai,killed that prince and succeeded to the sovereignty. He died, however, soon after, and in his room was elected Toctai, a very wise and able chief. Meantime, two sons of the slain monarch having grown up to manhood, and being wise and prudent, assembled a large body of troops, and marched to the court of Toctai. They went and threw themselves on their knees before him, when he bid them welcome, and desired them to rise. The two youths then stood up, when the eldest began to speak thus :— Noble sire, we come as sons of Totamangu, who was killed by Tolobuga and Nogai.The former being dead, we can say nothing ; but we seek vengeance on Nogai, and pray that you, as his rightful lord, make him appear and account for the death of our father.” The youth was then silent, and Toctai, feeling that he had spoken truth, replied,—* My noble friend, I will willingly do what you ask.” He then sent two messengers with this injunction to Nogai, who laughed at it, and positively refused to come. They rode back and reported this answer, when their master, much enraged, said in the hearing of all around him,—“ If God aid me, either Nogai shall obey my mandate, or I will march with all my men to destroy him.” He then sent two other messengers, who rode to the court of the Tartar, presented themselves, and saluted him, He bid them welcome, when one of them said,—"Noble sire, Toctai gives warning, that unless you come to his court to account for your conduct to the sons of Totamangu, he will march against you with all his people, and do you all the injury in his power ; therefore be careful what you do in this business, and what message you send.” The other wrathfully replied,—"Gentlemen, return to your lord, and tell him from me, that I little dread the threatened war, and am ready to come and meet him half-way.” The messengers, on hearing this speech, without delay set out, and rode till they came to their master, and told him all that Nogai had said. Seeing that war was inevitable, he immediately sent his messengers to all his subjects, and summoned them to prepare and march against his adversary. And what shall I say! He assembled the greatest armament in the world. When the Tartar prince heard this, he also made great preparations ; but his people being less numerous, he could not assemble an equal army; however it was very powerful.  When Toctai was fully ready to take the field, he set out, leading with him, I assure you, two hundred thousand horsemen. He rode on to the large and beautiful plain of Nerghi, and there pitched his camp. Hither also came the two sons of Totamangu, with a noble company of men, to avenge the death of their father. Now jet us turn to Nogai, who on learning his approach set. out with all his troops, and, without doubt, they were upwards of 150,000 horsemen, all good and valiant, better men at arms than those of the enemy. Two days after, he arrived and pitched his camp at ten miles distance. On both sides were seen very rich tents and pavilions of cloth of gold, fully displaying the wealth of these kings. They then waited a short time on the plain for refreshment and repose.