Toctar now assembled his people, and spoke as follows :—“ My lords, we have come to fight King Nogai, and with great reason, since all this feud and enmity have arisen from his not coming to account for his conduct to the sons of Totamangu. Since then his behaviour is thus unreasonable, we must feel good courage and hope of conquest ; and I earnestly pray that each man be valiant, and strive to carry destruction and death among the enemy.” The other, too, thus addressed his men :— "Noble friends and brethren, you know how many great and hard battles we have gained, and against better men than now oppose us; therefore you may feel assured of victory. Besides, we are fully in the right, and he in the wrong ; for, as you know well, he is not my lord, nor entitled to call me to his court to give an account to others, I say no more, but pray every one to perform such exploits, that the whole world may admire them, and your name may always strike terror.” The two kings, having thus spoken, made no delay in forming their order of battle. The first drew out twenty squadrons, and his enemy fifteen, of 10,000 men each, with good captains and conductors. Having rode on to within bow-shots, and the naccar having sounded, they rushed forward and discharged their arrows, when many horses and riders fell dead, loud cries arose, and tears were shed. Afterwards they all advanced with sword and spear ; hands, heads, and arms were cut off ; knights fell dead and wounded to the earth ; the cries, noise, and clashing of arms, would have drowned the loudest thunder. Never almost was there a battle in which such numbers fell ; but the greater loss was on the side of Toctai, for his adversary had better men-at-arms. The two sons of Totamangu displayed great prowess, striving to the utmost to avenge the death of their father; but it was in vain. The battle, in short, was most bloody and dreadful; many who in the morning were alive and vigorous, during the day fell slain, and many happy wives were made widows. Toctai strove with all his might to support his people and his honour, and displayed indeed a prowess worthy to be praised by the whole world. He rushed amid the enemy like one that cared nothing for life or death, striking to right and left, rescuing his people when seized or taken. He did much injury that day both to enemies and friends; of the one he killed a vast number, and the other, from his example, derived boldness to push against their foe, and thus met instant death. Nogai, on his side, equally acted the hero; he rushed among theenemy asthe lion does among other wild beasts, casting down and killing all whom he encountered. He threw himself among the thickest of the foe, and all fled before him like weak and timid animals. His troops emulated his valour ; but why make a long story ! The people of Toctai did every thing possible to support their honour, though in vain, for they had too good and stout men to deal with. They had suffered so much as to make it evident that if they remained they would all perish. They therefore took to flight as quickly as they could, the victor with his troops pursuing and killing them in great numbers. Thus have you heard how Nogai gained the battle, and be assured there died in it 60,000 men ; but the other king escaped, as well as the two sons of Totamangu.