PART II.

Central Asia.

Description of Armenia and Turcomania—Georgia ; the Iron
Gate—The Caspian— Kingdom of Mosul—Bagdad ; its Siege
and Capture—Tauris—Report of Miraculous Events—Description of Persia—Yezd and Kerman—Journey to Ormuz—
Daring Robbers—Description and Trade of Ormuz—Journey
to Khorasan—Alaodin, the Old Man of the Mountain—His
feigned Paradise—Assassinations—Subdued by the Tartars
—Journey to Balkh—To Badakshan—Mines of Ruby and
Lapis Lazuli—Peshawer—Cashmere—Source of the Oxus
in Lake Sir-i-kol—Plain of Pamir, called the Roof of the
World— Extreme Cold—Kirghizes and other rude Tribes—
Cashgar — Samarcand —Yarcund — Khoten —Pein—Ornamental Stones—Lop—Frightful Passage of the Great Desert
—Kingdom of Tangut ; Manners and Superstitions—Great
Caravan Station at Kamul ; strange Customs—Sou-tcheou—
Kan-tcheou or Campion—Journey to Ezina and Karakorum—Rise of the Empire of Gengis— Manners, Customs, and
Superstitions of the Tartars—Their Government—Conduct
of their Wars—Route through Siberia to the Northern
Ocean—Various Places on the Frontier of China—The Yak,
the Musk Animal, and beautiful Pheasants—Country of
Prester John—Imperial Hunting Palaces.

I.—On Armenia the Lesser.

You must know there are two Armenias, a great and a lesser one, which last has a king who rules with pure justice, and is subject to the Tartars. This region contains many cities and castles, and abundance of all things, with beasts and birds for hunting and hawking ; but I must tell you the. air is not very healthy. The
gentry used formerly to be valiant and good at arms ;
but now they are mean and yile, and remarkable only
for being hard drinkers. On the seacoast is a city
named Laias,which carries on a very great trade ; for
thither all the spices, rich cloths, and other precious
articles, are brought from India across the Euphrates,
which the merchants of Venice, of Pisa, and of Genoa,
come to purchase. . By this town we enter the province
of Turcomania.
II.—On Turcomania.

In Turcomania are three distinct races of men :—The
Turcomans adore Mohammed, and are simple people,
speaking a very rude language. They live amid mountains and valleys where there is good pasturage for
cattle, by which they subsist ; and I assure you that
they rear excellent horses and mules of great value. .
The two others are Armenians and Greeks, who dwell
iningled in cities, and subsist by merchandise and manufactures ; they work carpets and crimson silk, the richest and most beautiful in the whole world. They have
many towns, of which the principal are Como, Casserie,
and Sevasto.	 They are subject to the Eastern Tartars.
Now, let us leave them, and speak of Armenia the
Greater.

III.—On Armenia the Greater.

Armenia the Greater§ is a large country, and, at
the entrance of it isa city called Arzinga, in which is
made the best buckram in the world. There are several
baths of warm spring water, the best and most beautiful any where to be found. There are many castles,
and cities, among which the noblest is Arzinga, the seat
of an archbishop, and the metropolis of the whole district; there are also Argiron and Darzizi.I assure
you the province is very large, and during the summer
all the Tartars of the Levant reside here with their
flocks and herds, on account of its rich pastures ; but in
winter they cannot remain because of the severe cold
and snow, amid which the animals could not live. Now,
in this Armenia is the ark of Noah on a great mountain.The circuit of its base cannot be traversed in
less than two days ; and the ascent is rendered impracticable by the snow on its summit, which never dissolves,
but is increased by each successive fall. On the lower
declivities, the melted snows cause an abundant vegetation, and afford rich pastures for the cattle which in
summer resort thither from all the surrounding -countries. To the south-east it borders on a kingdom called
Mosul, inhabited by Jacobite and Nestorian Christians,
of whom we will mention more hereafter. On the
north’ it extends to the Georgians, and on that frontier is a fountain whence rises oil in such abundance
that a hundred ships might be at once loaded with it.
It is not good for eating, but very fit for fuel, for anointing the camels in maladies of the skin, and for other
purposes ; for which reason people come from a great distance for it, and nothing else is burned in all this country.Now let us quit Armenia, and tell of Georgia.

IV.—On Georgia and its Productions.

In Georgia§ is a king always called David Melik,
which means David the King ; he is subject to the Tartars ; and anciently all the monarchs of this province
were born with the mark of an eagle on their left shoulder.
They are a handsome people, good archers, and valiant
in battle. They are Christians of the Greek church,
and wear their hair close shaven in the manner of clergy.
This is the province which Alexander could not pass
through on account of the narrowness of the path ; because on one side is the sea, and on the other very high
mountains, over which it is impossible to ride ; and, as
this strait continues above four leagues, a few men
might hold out against the whole world. This was the
reason why he could not pass; but he built a very
strong tower, that no one might come upon him from
the other side, and it is called the Iron Gate.This
is the place mentioned in the book of Alexander, where
he enclosed the Tartars within their mountains ; though
the Tartars did not exist at that time, but a certain
people called Comani, and other races besides.. There
are many cities and castles, with silk in abundance, with
which, added to gold, they make cloths the most beautiful that ever man saw. Here are the finest cagles in the
world ; also victuals of every kind in abundance. The
province is full of great mountains, and of narrow
passes, so that I can tell you the Tartars could never
obtain the entire sovereignty of it. There isa monastery
called St Leonard, containing a great wonder, which I
will now relate. A large lake of water issues from a
neighbouring mountain, in which, during the whole
year, there is not found a fish great or small, except from
the day before Lent down to the evening of Easter Sunday ; and during the whole of that time fishes are taken
in great abundance, but none at any other. And know
that this sea of which I have spoken is seven hundred
miles in circuit, and receives the Euphrates, one of the
delights of paradise, and many other great rivers. It
is all surrounded by mountain and land; and lately
the merchants of Genoa, who have built shipa, navigate
it, bringing silk, which is called gelle.* Into this sea the
great rivers Herdil,t Geihon, Kur, and Aras enter. In
that province there is a grand city named Teflis, with
suburbs and fortified posts around it. The inhabitants
are Armenian and Georgian Christians, with some few
Mohammedans and Jews. There are manufactures of
silk and other articles. Now, having told you of the
boundaries of Armenia to the north, I will describe those
to the south and east.

V.—On the Kingdom of Mosul.

Mosul is a great kingdom on the eastern border of
Armenia, and inhabited by various denominations of
men, whom I will now describe. There is a race called
Arabic, who adore Mohammed ; also another who hold
the christian law, but not as the church of Rome commands ; they err in many things. They are denominated
Nestorian and Jacobite, and have a patriarch named
Jatolior, who makes archbishops, bishops, abbots, and
other clergy, and sends them to all parts of Bagdad,
India, and Cathay, as the pope does from Rome. All
the Christians who are in those parts are of this sect ;
and all the cloths of silk and gold, which are called
mosulin, are made there. I tell you, too, that the great
merchants who are called mosulin, and bring the largest
quantity of all costly spices, are of this kingdom.
Among its mountains are people called Kurds, who
are Nestorian and Jacobite Christians, but some are
Saracens, and reverence Mohammed. They are an overbearing and wicked people, ever ready to rob the merchants.Now let us leave Mosul, and speak of the
great city of Baldach.

VI.—On Baldach.

At this place dwelt the caliph, chief prelate of all the
Saracens in the world, as the pope is at Rome. Through
the middle of it flows a very large river, by which you
can proceed to the sea of India, whence merchants go
and come with their goods. From Baldach tothe ocean
by the stream is a voyage of eighteen days. The merchants going to India sail down that river to a place
named Chisi,} and then enter the Indian sea. Between
Baldach and Chisi is a great city named Bascra ;§ and
the woods around that city yield the finest dates in the
world. In Baldach are many rich cloths of silk and
gold, on which birds and beasts are represented ; and it
is the greatest and noblest city in all these regions. And
know, assuredly, that the caliph was found to possess
the most abundant treasure in gold, silver, and precious stones that ever was in the possession of man ;
and I will tell you how it happened. In the year
of our Lord, 1255,the great sire of the Tartars, who
is named Alau,brother to the great sire that now
reigns, assembled a very large army, and marched upon
Baldach and took it by force, which was a glorious exploit ; for it contained more than 100,000 horsemen besides foot soldiers ;and when it was taken, he found
the caliph in possession of a tower full of gold, silver, and
other treasure, such as never was seen at once in one
place. When he discovered it he sent for the monarch
and said : “Caliph, why have you amassed such a treasure,
and what do you mean todo with it? Did you not know
that I was your enemy, and coming to attack you with
this mighty host! Knowing this, why did you not take
your treasure, and give it to knights and soldiers to defend you and your city?” The caliph replied nothing,
because he knew not what to say. Then, said Alau:
“Caliph, since I see you love so much your treasure, I
will give it you to eat.” He then commanded that he
should be shut up in the tower with the treasure, and
that nothing should be given to him to eat or drink.
Then he said to him: “ Caliph, eat your treasure as
heartily as you please, for you will never eat any thing
else.” He was then immured in the tower, where he died
at the end of four days.And after him there never
was any other caliph.

VII.—On Toris or Tauris.

Toris is a great city, in a province called Yrac, containing many towns and castles ; but as this is the chief,
I will tell you about it. The men live by merchandise,
and by fabricating fine cloths of silk and gold. The
place is so well situated that merchants proceed hither
from India, Baldach, Mosul, Cremosor, and many other
places. The Latin traffickers come to meet those from
strange countries, from whom they purchase precious
pearls and other valuable articles. The men are of indifferent character and very mixed origin, Armenians,
Nestorians, Jacobites, Georgians, and Persians, and some
who adore Mohammed. The inhabitants of the city are
called Taurisians. Around it are very fine gardens, full
of fruits and vegetables.

The Saracens here are most wicked and disloyal. They
maintain that whatever is robbed or plundered from men
of a different creed is justly acquired ; while they regard
as martyrs those of their own sect who die by the hands
of Christians. If, therefore, they were not checked by
their present rulers, they would break out into many
outrages. These principles are common to them all.
At the point of death, the priest comes and demands
whether they believe that Mohammed was the prophet
of God. If they profess this belief, they are assured of
salvation ; and through this easy absolution, which leaves
scope for the perpetration of every crime, they have
succeeded in converting many of the Tartars, who feel
thus at liberty to indulge their worst propensities,

Near Toris is a monastery named after St Barsamo,
and famous for sanctity. It contains an abbot and many
monks, who dress like the Carmelites. Unwilling to
lead an idle life, they are constantly weaving woollen
girdles, which they place on the altar of their saint during divine service ; and while going round the province
to ask alms (as do their brethren of the Holy Ghost),
they present these to their friends and persons of distinction, who value them as beneficial in the cure of
theumatism.

VIII.—On a certain Miracle of the Movement of a Mountain
in that Region.

Now I am to tell you of a great miracle which
happened between Baldach and Mosul in the year 1225.
There was a caliph in the former who held the Christians
in great hatred, as it is natural for all the Saracens in the
world to do, He thought day and night how he might
compel all those in his country to become converts, or
else kill them. Many others concurred in that wicked
purpose, and they agreed upon this plan : They found in
the gospel a text saying that if a Christian had as much
faith as a grain of mustard-seed and made his prayer to
God, he would be able to join two mountains together.
On finding this text, they felt great joy, thinking they
had thus either a means of converting them, or a pretext for killing them outright. He therefore sent for all
the Jacobite and Nestorian believers in his country, who
were very numerous; and when they came before him,
he showed them this gospel, made them read it, and
asked if it were true. They replied that it was so.
Then, continued the caliph, since so many Christians
are here, there surely must be among you this small
measure of faith ; therefore, said he, pointing to a large
hill in view, you must remove that mountain, or I will
put you allto death, because otherwise you must be
wholly destitute of faith, and on that account deserve
to die. If, however, you will turn to our good law of
Mohammed, you shall be forgiven; and, in the mean
time, I allow you tefi days to do what is required. He
then dismissed them. On hearing what the caliph had
said, they were in great fear, and knew not what to
resolve. Then they all assembled, small and great,
men and women, the bishop, archbishop, and priests
of whom there were a considerable number, and they
remained eight days and eight nights in prayer, that
God, in his mercy, and for the diffusion of his faith,
would come to their aid, and enable them to escape this
cruel death with which they were threatened. But
what have I now to tell you! While they were thus
deeply engaged in prayer, an angel, by the message of
God, appeared to a bishop who was a man of very holy
life. He said, “Oh, bishop! do you now go to acertain
shoemaker with one eye, and tell him that at his prayer
the mountain will be moved.” Now this shoemaker was
a very honest and chaste man ; he fasted and went regularly to mass, and ‘gave every day bread to the
poor. I will tell you a thing that he did, to prove
his good faith and life. It happened one day that
a very beautiful woman came to his shop to purchase a
pair of shoes, and in order to make them fit, he was
obliged to look at her foot and ankle, and they were so
finely shaped that he felt his eye take an undue pleasure in viewing them. As soon as she was gone, he
began bitterly to reproach himself, and remembered the
text, “if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast
it from thee.” He then took a sharp weapon, and stuck
it into his eye, so that it burst in his head, and he never
saw with it again. Thus you see he was a most holy
and good man. When, therefore, the bishop had this
vision, he told it to all his people, and they agreed
that this shoemaker should be called before them,
and when he came, they requested him to pray to God
that he would make the mountain move. But when
the shoemaker heard what the bishop and the others
said, he answered that he was not so good a man as
that God or our lady should for his sake do so great
a miracle. But the Christians pressed him so earnestly, that he at last agreed, and made the prayer.
When the final day was come, they all rose early in
the morning, great and small, male and female; and
entering the church, they sung the holy mass, and then
proceeded out to the plain in front of the mountain.
They were fully a hundred thousand, and they all placed
themselves in front of the cross. The caliph then came
with a vast number of Saracens, eager to slay the unbelievers, for they thought it impossible the hill could
be moved, and they themselves were in great fear and
doubt ; nevertheless they had good hope in their Creator.
Then the shoemaker fell on his knees before the cross,
lifted his hands to heaven, and prayed fervently that the
mountain might be moved, and the Christians there
assembled escape a dreadful death. When he had made
his prayer, it was not long before the vast eminence began
to stir, and move from its place. The Saracens, on seeing this, wondered greatly, and many of them were converted ; nay, the caliph himself became a believer in the
gospel, but secretly, and when he died, a cross was
found round his neck; for which reason he was not
buried in the same place with the other sovereigns, but
in a tomb by himself. Now let us leave Baldach and
go to Persia.

IX.—On the Province of Persia, and the Journey of the Magi.

Persia isa very extensive province, anciently very rich
and flourishing, but now in a great degree wasted and
destroyed by the Tartars. It contains a city called Sava,
whence the three magi came to adore Jesus Christ when
born at Bethlehem. In that city are buried the three,
in separate tombs, above which is a square house carefully preserved. Their hearts are still entire, with their
hair and beards.One was named Balthazar, the other
Gaspar, the third Melchior. Messer Marco inquired
often in that city about these three magi, but no one
could tell him any thing, except that they were ancient
kings, who were there buried. They informed him, however, that three days’ journey farther was a tower called
the Castle of the Fire-worshippers, because the men there
venerate fire, and for the following reason. They say
that anciently three kings of that country went to adore
acertain prophet, newly born, and carried three offerings,
gold, incense, and myrrh, to know if he were a king, a
god, or a sage; for they said that, if he took gold, he was
aking; if incense, he wasa god; if myrrh, he was a sage.
They went in one after another, and though they were of
different ages and fashions, he appeared to each of them
exactly like himself. When they came out and compared what they had seen, they wondered much, and
then went in altogether, and the child then appeared to
them what he really was, a boy of thirteen days old.
They presented to him the three offerings, and he took
them all, whence they concluded that he was at once
god, king, and sage. He presented to them a closed box,
desiring them not to open it till their return home.
After having travelled a number of days, however, they
were curious to see what was in the box, and opened it,
when they found only a stone, which was meant to express that they should remain firm in the faith which they
had received. They did not understand this meaning,
and despising the gift, threw it into a well, when immediately a great fire came down from heaven, and began
to burn brightly. When they saw this wonder, they
were quite astonished, and repented that they had thrown.
away the stone. They however took a portion of the fire,
carried it to their country, and placed it in their church,
where they kept it continually burning. They revere
it as a god, and use it for burning all their sacrifices ; and
when at any time it goes out, they repair to that well,
where the fire is never extinguished,and from it bring
a fresh supply. This is what all the people of that
country tell, and Messer Marco was assured of it by those
of the castle, and therefore it is truth. One of these
kings was of Saba, the other of Ava, the other of the
castle. Now let me tell you of Persia, its cities, and the
actions and customs of the people.

X.—On the Kingdoms of Persia.

Know, then, that in Persia there are eight kingdoms,
because it is a very great country, and I will tell you
their names. The first is called Casum ;the second,
to the south, Cardistan ; the third Lor ; the fourth Cielstan ;the fifth Istanit ;he sixth Cerazi ;the seventh
Soucara ;the eighth Tonocain,which is on the remotest frontier. In this last are many fine horses of
high value, which are taken in large numbers to be sold
in India; and the greater part of them are worth two hundred livres tournoiseach. They have also the finest asses
in the world, one of which is worth full thirty mares of
silver.The men of that country lead these horses to
two cities on the banks of the sea of India, called Chisi
and Curmosa, and find there merchants, who buy them
and carry them into their distant country. In these
kingdoms there are many cruel men, who are constantly killing one another, and but for the fear of
the Eastern Tartars, who now rule in this land, they
would ruin the merchants. As it is, unless the latter are
well provided with arms and bows, they often kill or
hurt them severely.These men all hold the law of
Mohammed. In the city are industrious merchants ; they
make robes of silk and gold of various fashions, and raise
also plenty of cotton. The country abounds in wheat,
barley, millet, as well asin vines and other fruits.Some
may imagine that the Saracens do not drink wine, as
being forbidden by their law ; but they quiet their consciences by thinking that if boiled over the fire, which
renders it milder and sweet, it may be drunk without
breaking the commandment. Changing its taste, they
change its name, and no longer call it wine, though it
really is so.Let us now leave them, and tell you of
Yasdi.
XI.—On the City of Yasdi.

Yasdi § is a beautiful and noble city, with rich manufactures, The people make silk cloths called by
its name, which the merchants carry into various countries. They all adore Mohammed. Whena man departs
from that city, he rides seven days over a plain, where
in three places only there are habitations and inns for
the traveller. There are many forests filled with partridges and other birds, which afford excellent sport ; also
beautiful wild asses. At the end of these seven days a
country called Creman presents itself.

XII.—On the Kingdom of Creman.

Creman is a kingdom anciently belonging to Persia,
and which used to be governed by a hereditary prince ;
but since the Tartar conquered it, he appoints what
deputy he pleases. In that region the stones called turquoises are in great abundance ; they are found in the
mountains, and excavated from the rocks, The inhabitants make all things necessary for troops, such as reins,
saddles, bows, arrows, quivers, and all kinds of arms, according to the custom of the country. The ladies work
very neatly cloths of gold and silk, representing with the
needle, beasts, birds, and many other objects.In the
mountains are reared the finest falcons in the world, for
though smaller than the peregrine species, they fly so
swiftly that no bird can escape them. When a man
leaves the city of Creman, he travels seven days through
towns and fortified places, finding much amusement, because there are great numbers of wild beasts and birds,
At the end of these seven days, he comes to the declivity of
a mountain, and continues two days always descending.
There are abundance of fruits, but no habitation, only
shepherds pasturing their flocks. The cold on this road
during winter is so great that a man cannot safely
travel unless with a very ample provision of clothes.

XIII.—On Camandnu, Reobarle, and the Karauna Robbers.

At the bottom of this descent is a very extensive plain,
at the commencement of which is a city named Camandu,once wonderfully great and noble, but now
much declined, because the Tartar invaders have repeatedly plundered it. The heat here is extreme, and
the province is called Reobarle.Its fruits are dates,
pistachio nuts, apples of paradise, and others which do
not grow in our country. Here are a species of birds
called francolin, which are different from those of other
lands, their colour being a mixture of white and black,
while the beak and feet are red. The oxen are very
large, white as snow, and the hair very smooth, in consequence of the heat. Between the shouldersis a hump,
two palms high, and their appearance is the most beautiful of any in the world. When the owner wishes to
load them, they bend down as the camels do, and after
receiving their burden, rise and bear it well, being
extremely strong. There are sheep as large as asses,
and with tails so thick and so broad as to weigh full
thirty pounds. They are also fat, and make excellent
food.The people have castles and cities surrounded
by walls of earth, in order to defend themselves against
the Caraunas, a mixed race between the Indians and the
Tartars. When these people wish to overrun the country and rob it, they, by their enchantment and diabolical agency, cause the day to become dark, so that you
can see to little or no distance, and this darkness they
make to last seven days.They know the places
so well, that they can ride during the thickest of it ;
and they are sometimes ten thousand in number, so that
nothing found on the plain, man, beast, or any thing,
can escape. They kill the old persons, and carry off
the young to sell them for slaves. Their king is called
Nogodar, and he went to the court of Ciagatai, who was
the brother of the great khan, with 10,000 men, and
remained with him, because his uncle was very powerful.
During this stay, Nogodar committed a very great wickedness, and I will tell you what it was. He departed
from his uncle Ciagatai, who was in Great Armenia,
and took with him 10,000 of his people, who were
very cruel, and marched by Badasian and through a
province called Pasciai, and another called Chesciemur,
losing many of his people and beasts, because the roads
were narrow and very bad; and when they had passed
all these provinces, they entered into India, on the
borders of one called Dilivar. They came to the city
of the same name, and took it from a king called Asidiu
Sultan, who was very great and rich. There Nogodar,
with his people, continues to rule, and makes war with
all the other Tartars who dwell in the surrounding country.Having told you of this plain, and of the people
who produced darkness in order to rob, I must also mention that Messer Marco himself was nearly taken
by them amid this gloom, but though a number of his
companions were captured, and either killed or sold as
slaves, he himself escaped to a castle named Canosalmi.

XIV.—On the City of Cormos.

That plain extends five days’ journey southward, and
you then come to a descent which continues twenty miles
by a very bad and difficult road, full of wicked robbers.
You then approach the very beautiful plain of Formosa,
watered by fine rivers, with plantations of the date-palm,
and having the air filled with francolins, parrots, and
other birds unknown to our climate.You ride two
days through it, and then arrive at the ocean, on which
there is a city and fort named Cormos.The ships of
India bring thither all kinds of spiceries, precious stones,
and pearls, cloths of silk and gold, elephants’ teeth, and
many other articles. It is the capital of a kingdom,
having many cities and castles under it, and the sovereign
is called Ruemedan Achomac, The climate, however, is
intensely hot, and extremely unhealthy, and when any
foreign merchant dies, the king inherits all his property.
Wine is here made of dates and other spices, and is
extremely good ; but when drunk by men unaccustomed
to it, has a strong purgative quality, though, after some
use, it agrees well, and promotescorpulence. The people live chiefly on dates and salted fish, particularly the
tunny ; considering these victuals to be the most wholesome, and that if they used wheaten bread and fiesh they
would fall sick. The ships are very bad, and many are
lost from not being secured by nails like ours, but sewed
together by a thread made of the bark of the Indian nuttrees, which being softened in water, becomes like horsehair, and is durable enough. They use it for want of
iron, but it is by no means strong or secure. They have
a mast, sail, and rudder, all single, and a coverlet of
leather, which is spread over the goods, and on that they
place the horses, many of which are transported into
India. These ships, too, are not tarred, but covered with
the oil of fish, The people are black, and adore Mohammed. They do not remain in the city during summer, for then they would all die, but retire to the
country, where they have verdant gardens, finely watered
by streams. Even there they would not escape, because there often blows from the sandy tracts that surround the city a wind so excessively hot that it would
kill them all, if they did not plunge into the water
and thus escape it.They sow wheat, barley, and
other kinds of grain in the month of November, and reap
them in March, when they become ripe and perfect ;
but none except the date will endure till May, being
dried up by the extreme heat. I have also to tell you,
when men or women die, great grief is shown, and the
ladies, during full four years after the death of their husbands, make lamentations at least once a-day. On these
occasions, they assemble their relations and neighbours,
who join them in loud moanings and cries. In proof of
the extreme violence of the heat, Marco Polo mentions
the following circumstance which occurred during his
residence. The ruler of Cormos neglected to pay his tribute to the King of Creman, who took the resolution of
enforcing it at the season when the principal inhabitants
gointothecountry. He therefore despatched 1600 horse
and 5000 foot through the district of Reobarle, to take
them by surprise. Being misled, however, by the guides,
they did not reach the place till night, when they halted
to rest in a grove near the town. On renewing their march
next morning, they were attacked by the hot wind, and
all suffocated ; not one surviving to carry back the fatal
intelligence. When the people of Cormos learned this
event, and went to bury the dead bodies lest they should
infect the air, they found them so softened by the intense
heat, that the limbs, when handled, separated from the
trunks ; and it was necessary to dig graves close to where
the corpses lay.

XV.—Return to Creman.

We will now leave this city, and not go on to
India, for I will describe it farther on in my book, in the
proper time and place. We will return, therefore, by
another road to Creman, because the countries now
to be delineated can be reached only by way of that
city, and I must tell you that Ruemedan Achomac,
of whom we have just spoken, is subject to its king.
The route in returning thither from Cormos is through
avery fine plain. There are many springs whence the
water issues in a hot state, forming baths very salutary
in cutaneous and other diseases. Here is abundance of
fruits and dates, also of partridges and other birds ; but
the wheaten bread, owing to the quality of the water, is
so bitter that no one unaccustomed to its use can eat it.
I now wish to tell you of a country lying to the north.
‘When a man has left Creman, he travels seven days in
that direction, through a very dreary region. During
three days he finds no river, and the little water met
with is salt, green like grass, and so bitter that it is impossible to drink it, and if a man tastes even a drop, it
produces violent purging. Travellers, therefore, carry
water with them ; but-the beasts being obliged to drink
such as they find, suffer severely. The whole tract is
an arid desert, destitute of animals, which could not find
food. On the fourth day, you reach a river of fresh
water, but with its channel mostly under ground. In
some spots, however, the force of the current makes
abrupt openings, when the stream appears for a short
space, and drink is abundantly supplied. Then follows
another tract that lasts four days, and is also a dry
desert, with bitter water, and no animals except wild
asses, At the end of the four days, we leave the kingdom of Creman and proceed towards Cobinam.

XVI.—On the City of Cobinam.

Cobinam is a great city inhabited by Mohammedans.
There is abundance of iron, brass, and andanico, of the
second of which they construct large and beautiful mirrors; they make here also the tutty, which is extremely
good for the eyes, and likewise sponge, in the following
manner. They take a vein of earth fitted for this purpose, and throw it into a burning furnace, above which
is a grating of iron; then the smoke and moisture
ascending adhere to the iron and form tutty, while the
earth which remains in the furnace becomes sponge.

XVII.—On the Province of Tonocain.

‘When a man departs from Cobinam, he goes through
a desert of eight days, and the country is very arid;
there is neither fruit nor trees, and the water is bitter and bad, so that he must carry both it and food
for himself, but the beasts drink that on.the road,
though very unwillingly. He then comes to a province
called Tonocain, with cities and many castles, bordering
upon Persia towards the north; and there is a very
great plain on which grows what the Christians call
the dry tree, which I will describe to you. It is very
large, and its leaves are green on one side and white on
the other. It yields a nut like the chestnut ; but there
is nothing within it. It is a strong wood, and yellow
like box ; and there is no other tree in those parts for
a hundred miles round, except on one side, at ten miles’
distance.It is said by the people of the country to be
the place where Alexander fought with Darius. There
are many towns and castles, and the inhabitants have
abundance of all good things, the climate being neither
too cold nor too hot. Now I must tell you of a country
called Mulecte, where the Old Man of the Mountain
used to dwell.

XVIII.—On the Castle of the Old Man of the Mountain, and
how he trained and employed his Assassins.

You shall Jearn all about the Old Man of the Mountain, as I Marco heard related by many persons. He
was called in their language Alaodin, and had caused to
be formed, in a valley between two mountains, the largest
and most beautiful garden that ever was seen. There
grew all the finest fruits in the world, and it was adorned
by the most beautiful houses and palaces, the interior
being richly gilded, and furnished with finely coloured
pictures of birds and beasts, and the most striking objects. It contained several conduits through which flowed
respectively water, wine, honey, and milk. Here were
ladies and damsels unequalled in beauty and in the
skill with which they sung and played on instruments
of every description. Now the Old Man made his people
believe that this garden was paradise, and he formed
it thus because Mohammed had given the Saracens to
believe that those who went into that place would
meet great numbers of beautiful women, and find rivers
of water, wine, milk, and honey; hence the visiters
were led to think that this really was paradise. Into this
garden he admitted no man except those whom he wished
to make assassins. The entry to the spot was commanded
by a castle so strong that he did not fear any power in
the world. He kept in his court all the youths of the
country between twelve and twenty years of age, and
when he thought proper, selected a number who had
been well instructed in the description of paradise. He
gave them a beverage which threw them into a deep
sleep, then carried them into the garden, and made them
be awakened. When any one of them opened his eyes,
saw this delightful spot, and heard the delicious music
and songs, he really believed himself in the state of
blessedness. When again, however, he fell asleep, he
was brought out into the castle, where he awoke in
great wonder, and felt deep regret at having left that
delightful abode. He then went humbly to the Old
Man, worshipping him as a prophet. Being asked
whence he came, he told that he had been in the
paradise described by Mohammed, relating all he had
seen, and saying that he desired much to die and return thither. The chief then named to him a great
lord whom he wished him to kill. The youth cheerfully
obeyed, and if in the act he was taken and put to death,
he suffered with exultation, believing that he was to go
into the happy place. If, after performing the deed, he
escaped, the Old Man received him with the greatest
honour, and when he wished to destroy another chief,
employed him afresh, saying that he was sent into
paradise. Thus scarcely any person could escape being
slain, when the Old Man of the Mountain desired it; and
many barons became vassals to him through the dread
of thus losing their lives.

XIX.—How Alau took and killed the Old Man of the Mountain.

Having now told you of the Old Man of the Mountain and his assassins, you shall hear how he was killed.
I had forgot to mention, that he had other old men
placed under him, one of whom he sent into the country of Damascus, and the other into Kurdistan. But
now let us come to his destruction. It was in 1262
that Alau, the Lord of the East, having heard of his
wicked deeds, determined to destroy him. He sent his
generals with a great body of men, who besieged the
castle full three years, and then could only reduce it
by famine. Alaodin being taken, was killed, with all
his people, and since that time there has been no assassin ;
and thus ended his dominion and his wickedness.

XX.—Of a certain City named Sapurgan.

When a man departs from that castle, he rides
through beautiful hills covered with rich herbage, with
fruits and all things in great abundance. The country
extends to a journey of six days, and contains cities the
inhabitants of which adore Mohammed. Yet sometimes
yau find a desert of fifty or sixty miles, without water,
which men must carry with them. When the traveller
has rode six days through the country now described,
he finds a city called Sapurgan.It has great abundance
of all things, among which are the finest melons in the
world in great plenty, and they are preserved in this
manner: The people cut them all round like cucumbers,
and dry them in the sun, when they become sweeter than
honey, and are sold through all the country. Here is
fine hunting of beasts and birds. Now I will go on to
another city named Balk.

XXI.—Of the City of Balk.

Balk is a great and noble town, and was anciently
still more so; but the Tartars have spoiled and wasted
it, so that many beautiful houses and palaces of marble
are now destroyed.It was here, as I was told by the
people, that Alexander took to wife the daughter of
Darius. The people revere Mohammed ; and at this
point ends the dominion of the Eastern Tartars, this city
being the boundary of Persia, between north-east and
east. Now let us tell of another country named Dogans.
On leaving Balk, you ride two days between north-east
and east, and find no habitation, because the people have
all fled to the fortresses in the mountains for fear of
wicked men, who lay waste the land. There is no want
of water or game, and lionsare also seen. No food is to
be procured, but travellers must carry it both for themselves and their horses.

XXII.—Of the Castle of Taikan.

When a man has rode these two days, he finds a castle
called Taikan,where there is a great corn-market,
and the country round is fine. The mountains towards
the south are very high, and formed entirely of salt,
which is the best in the world, and people come for it
from a distance of thirty days’ journey round. It is so
hard, that it can be broken only by great iron hammers ;
and there is enough to supply the whole human race till
the end of time. Departing from that city, you go three
days north-east, through a fine country, well planted
with grain and fruits. The people, who are followers of
Mohammed, are wicked and murderous. They spend
much time in the tavern, for they have abundance of
good wine, well prepared. They wear nothing on their
heads but a cord ten palms long wrapt round it. They
are good hunters, and thus supply themselves with venison ; but have no clothing except the skins of animals.

XXIII.—Of the City of Scassem.

When a man travels three days, he finds a city named
Scassem, which is on the plain, while the others are
on the mountains, and through it flows a considerable river. There are here many porcupines, and when
the hunters set their dogs upon them, the hogs collect
together and push their spines against their assailants,
and often hurt them severely.* This Scassem is a large
province, and the shepherds dwell in caverns on the
mountains, which are easily formed, being wholly of
earth, and make large handsome habitations.t When
aman leaves this city, he travels three days without
finding a house, or any thing to eat or drink, being obliged
to carry provisions with him, and he then enters the district of Badascian.

XXIV.—Of the Province of Badascian.

Badascian is a large province, whose people adore
Mohammed, and have a language of their own. It is
governed by kings descended from Alexander and the
daughter of Darius lord of Persia, and all these kings
are called in Saracen Zulcarnem, which means in their
language Alexander.In this country occur the precious stones called balasiu, which are very beautiful and
valuable. They are found in the rocks of a mountain
called Lighinan, and are cut out of very deep caverns, as is
done by those who work silver mines, Know, too, that
the king makes them be worked out for himself, and no
other man may cut out balasiu on that mountain, on pain
of death. His majesty sends them as presents to other
princes and great lords, either as homage, or in token
of friendship, and he likewise sells them for gold and
silver. The prohibition is enforced that they may
continue valuable ; for if all persons were allowed to
dig for them, they would be quite depreciated.You
must likewise know, that in other mountains of the same
country are found the stones of which ultramarine is
made, and it is the finest and best in the world.There
are also lofty hills containing veins yielding silver in
abundance. The country is extremely cold, but it
breeds very good horses, which run with great speed
over these wild tracts without being shod with iron.t
There are found also the falcons called sacri, which fly
well and swiftly ; also those called /anier ; and there
is abundant hunting of beasts and birds. Wheat and
good barley are plentiful ; they have no oil of olives,
but make it from sesamum and nuts. This kingdom
has many a narrow pass and strong post to secure it
against the entrance of enemies, and the cities and castles
are strongly built on high mountains.The people
are good archers and hunters, and mostly clad in the
skins of beasts, on account of the scarcity of cloth. The
great ladies, however, wear from sixty toa hundred yards
of bombasine wrapped round their body, in order that
they may appear very fat, because the men delight in
such a shape.

On the summits of the mountains the air is so pure
and salubrious that the inhabitants of the towns and
lower valleys, when attacked by fever or other inflammatory complaints, immediately remove thither, and in
three or four days recover their health. Marco Polo
affirms, that he himself experienced its excellent effects ;
for after being confined nearly a year by sickness, he
was advised to try change of air by ascending the hills,
and he then immediately regained his strength.

XXV.—Of the Province of Pascia.

You are to know that ten days south from Badascian
is a province called Pascia.The people have a peculiar language ; they are worshippers of idols, and much
skilled in enchantments and diabolical arts. The men
wear ear-rings and buckles of gold and silver, with
pearls and precious stones. They are a very artful and
malicious people. The province is extremely hot, and
the people live upon flesh and rice. Now let us leave
it, and tell of another, which is distant from this seven
days towards the south-east.

XXVI.—Of the Province of Kesimur.

Kesimur is inhabited by idolaters, who have a language of theirown. They have a wonderful knowledge
of the enchantments of devils, making their images
speak, and by sorcery changing the seasons, causing great
darkness, and doing other wonders which could not be
believed unless they were seen. The idols of this province are the heads over all the others, and went down
hence to the neighbouring countries. The people are
meagre and of a brown complexion ; but the females are
very beautiful. They live on flesh and rice, and have
a number of cities and castles. They have woods and
deserts, and passes so strong that they have little dread.
of an invader: their king rules with great justice.
In this country are hermits, who observe great abstinence in eating and drinking, and carefully abstain from
all offences against their faith ; and thisis done through
veneration of their gods. They have abbeys and monasteries, are held in much reverence by the people of
the country, and live toa great age.The coral brought
from our land is sold more readily there than in any
other nation. From this place you may go to the sea of
India, and if we went farther we should enter into that
country ; but being to return that way, we will then describe it in due order, and now go back to Badascian.

XXVII.—Of the Countries of Vokhan, Pamier, and Belor.

When a man departs from Badascian, he goes twelve
days between north-east and east, along a river which
belongs to a brother of the lord of that land. There are
many castles, and a good number of inhabitants, who are
valiant and adore Mohammed. He then comes to a
province named Vokhan, not very large, being only three
days’ journey in every direction. The people are of
the same description, and subject to the ruler of Badascian.Wild beasts and birds of every kind for hunting
are most abundant. Having left this place, and travelled three days, always over mountains, he ascends to
a district which is said to be the highest in the world.
Here he finds a plain between two vast hills, through
which flows a very fine river, issuing from a large lake ;
and it is the best pasturage in the world, for a lean
animal becomes fat here in ten days.All kinds of
wild animals abound ; in particular, a species of sheep
with horns of three, four, and even six palms long.
These are formed by the shepherds into large spoons, out
of which they eat ; and are even employed in enclosing
the places where they keep their cattle. The hornsare
heaped up in large quantities along the road, for the
purpose of guiding travellers during winter, when it is
covered with snow.t While a man passes for twelve
days along this high plain, which is called Pamier,§ he
sees neither habitation nor verdure, but must carry all
his provisions along with him. No birds can live in
this cold region; and I can even state that the fire
does not burn so clear nor with the same colour as
in other places, nor does it cook victuals so well.Leaving this place, he has to go on forty days between north
and north-east, and passes many rivers and deserts ; and
in all this journey finds neither verdure nor habitation,
but must carry all his provisions along with him. This
country is called Belor.t The people live in very lofty
mountains, They are idolaters, extremely savage, violent, and cruel, subsist by hunting, and dress themselves
in the skins of beasts.

XXVIII.—Of the Province of Cascar.

Cascar was anciently a kingdom, but is now under
the dominion of the great khan. The people adore
Mohammed, and have cities and castles; they are situated between the north and east. They subsist by
merchandise and manufactures, having also fine gardens,
vineyards, and orchards, with a good supply of silk.
The merchants, in carrying on their trade, go round the
whole world ; but they are sordid and covetous, eating
and drinking very poorly. Some Nestorian Christians
reside here, observing their own customs and laws.
The people have a language of their own ; and the province extends five days’ journey.Now let us leave it
and speak of Samarcan.

XXIX.—Of the City of Samarcan.

Samarcan is a very great and noble city, lying to the
south, inhabited by Christians and Saracens. The people are governed by a nephew of the great khan, who,
however, is not his friend, but is in open hostility
against him. I have to tell you a great wonder which
happened in this city. You must know that not very
long since, Ciagatai, brother to the great khan, became a
Christian, and was lord of that and of many other
countries. The believers of Samarcan rejoiced greatly
at his conversion, and erected a large church in honour of it, bearing the name of St John the Baptist.
They took a large and fine stone belonging to the Saracens, and made it the base of a column, which rose in
the middle of the edifice, and supported the whole roof.
Now it came to pass that Ciagatai died, whereupon the
Mohammedans, having been much enraged at this stone
being taken for the use of the church, consulted with
each other how to recover it by force. This they could
now easily do, being ten to one of their adversaries,
Several of their elders went and told the Christians
that they wished to receive back the slab, which
had been formerly theirs. The latter answered, that
they would willingly restore it, but for the injury it
would do to their building, and offered to pay a fair
price for it. The others replied, that they wished neither
gold nor treasure, but must have their stone. The
government now belonged to the nephew of the great
khan, who commanded that within two days it should
be restored. When the Christians received that order,
they were much grieved, and knew not what to do.
They went, however, and with many tears implored
John the Baptist to relieve them in this tribulation.
On the morning of the day when the stone was to
be returned, the pillar, by the power of our Lord, rose
up at least three palms, and supported itself as well
as when the stone was beneath it, and has continued to
do so till this day. This was and still is accounted one
of the greatest miracles that ever happened in the
world.Now let me tell you of a province which is
called Yarcan.

XXX.—Of the Province of Yarcan.

Yarcan is a province five days’ journey in length.
The people obey the law of Mohammed, but there are
some Nestorian Christians; they are subject to the
nephew of the khan mentioned above. All necessaries are in great abundance. Cotton is also grown, and
the inhabitants are skilful artisans. They suffer severely by swellings in the legs and in the throat, occasioned
by the bad quality of the water.Finding nothing else
worth mentioning, I shall go on to Cotan.

XXXI.—Of the great Province of Cotan.

Cotan is a province between north-east and east, and
is eight days’ journey in length. The people adore
Mohammed ; they have a number of cities and castles.
The capital is a noble town, called by the name of the
kingdom. They have all things in abundance, a large
supply of silk, with vineyards and good orchards. They
carry on merchandise and manufactures, but are not
men at arms.

XXXII.—Of the Province of Pein.

Pein is a province five days’ journey in length, between north-east and east. The people adore Mohammed, are subject to the great khan, and have a number
of towns and castles. The noblest city and capital is
called by the name of the kingdom. Here is a river in
which are found the stones named jasper and calcedony,.
The people are very well supplied with necessaries, and
grow a good deal of silk.They live by merchandise
and arts, and have a custom which I will now tell you.
‘When a woman has a husband who has gone a journey,
and is to be absent above twenty days, as soon as he has
departed she takes another partner, being fully allowed  by usage to do so; while the husband, in the place
where he goes, takes another wife. Know that all the
provinces now described from Cascar to the present, and
still farther on, belong to Great Turkey. Now let us
tell of a province named Ciarcian.

XXXIII.—Of the Province of Ciarcian.

Ciarcian is a province of Great Turkey, lying between
north-east and east, with a capital city of the same
name. The people adore Mohammed, and have a good
number of towns and castles, There is a river bringing
jasper and calcedony, which, being of excellent quality,
they take to sell in Cathay, and thus make great profit.
This province is sandy, as well as the whole road from
Cotan hither ; and much of the water is bad and bitter,
but in various places it is good. When an enemy passes
through the country, they flee with their wives, children,
and cattle, two or three days’ journey through the sand
to places abounding in fine water and pasturage ; and
no one can tell where they have gone, because the wind
blowing the sand obliterates all traces of their march,
and they thus escape the invader. But when a friendly
army passes through, they send away only the beasts,
because the troops would take and eat them, without
any payment.After departing from Ciarcian, you
go five days through the waste, finding the water bad
and bitter, but occasionally sweet and good. At the
end of these five days you come to a city which lies
at the commencement of the great desert, wherein provisions are laid in for its passage, and therefore I must
tell you about it.

XXXIV.—Of the City and Desert of Lop.

Lop is a large city at the entrance of the great desert
bearing its name, and lying between the east and northeast. It belongs to the khan, and the people adore Mohammed. You must know that those persons who wish to
pass this tract rest in the city a week to refresh themselves and their cattle ; then, having taken a month’s
provisions and provender, they enter upon the desert,
which I assure you is so extensive that if a man were
to travel through its whole length, it would employ a
year ; and even at its smallest breadth, a month is requisite.t It consists altogether of mountains and valleys
of sand, and nothing is got to eat; but after travelling
a day and a night, you find sweet water sufficient for
from fifty to a hundred men, with their animals. A
larger body could not be supplied. Thus, water is seen
daily, or altogether in about twenty-eight places, and
except in three or four it is good. Beasts or birds there
are none, because they could not find food; but there
is agreat wonder which I must now tell you. When
a party rides by night through this desert, and any one
lags behind, or straggles from his companions through
sleep or any other cause, when he seeks to return to
them, he hears spirits speak to him in such a manner
that they seem to be his comrades, and they frequently
call him by name, and thus lead him out of his way so
that he never regains it, and many persons are thus lost
and perish. I must tell you, too, that even by day you
hear these voices of spirits, and even tambours, and many
other instruments sounding.They find it necessary,
also, before going to rest at night, to fix an advanced
signal, pointing out the course to be afterwards held ;
likewise to attach a bell to each of the animals, that they
may be more easily kept from straggling. In this manner,
amid much danger and fear, this desert is passed. Now we
must tell you of the countries that lie on the other side.

XXXV.—Of the Province of Tangut and City of Sacchion.
When you have rode thirty days through this desert,
you find a city named Sacchion,which belongs to the
khan, The province is called Tangut,and the people
are idolaters, mixed with some Nestorian Christians
and Saracens. The first have languages of their own ;
they subsist not by merchandise, but by the grain which
they produce from the earth. They have many abbeys
and monasteries, all full of idols of various shapes, to
which they offer frequent sacrifices and homage. Every
man who has children rears a sheep, and at a particular
festival at the end of the year, leads them along with
that animal into the presence of the god, to whom they
all perform reverence. They cook the sheep and offer
it very humbly before the idol, leaving it while they
make their prayers for the safety of their children.
They then take the meat and carry it to the house, or
wherever they please, send for their relations, and eat it
with great joy and respect. They afterwards collect the
bones, and preserve them with much diligence. You must
know likewise, that when any one of them dies, his body
is burned, and after he is carried to the place for this last
ceremony, they erect in the middle of the path a house
of cane, covered with cloths of silk and gold. When
the dead man is laid before this ornamented house,
they place before him wine and victuals, believing that
he will be similarly honoured in the other world. At
the place of burning, too, they cut in paper, men, horses,
camels, and coins of the size of bezarits, convinced that
the deceased will possess all these things in the future
state. On this occasion, all the instruments in the land
are sounded before the corpse. I must tell you, too, that
after death the relations send for the astrologer, who is
informed of the day, month, and year of his nativity,
and then divines, by his diabolical art, the day on which
the burning ought to take place. If it should be a week,
a month, or six months, they keep it all that time,
and never burn it till the appointed day. During this
interval, they deposit it in a large box covered with
cloth, and so preserved with crocus and other spices that
no stench arises. Throughout this period, they place daily
before the box meat and drink, and leave it there for
some time, till they think he has eaten it. These sorcerers, too, often tell the relations that the dead body
must not be carried out by the main door, but by a private one, or even through a breach made in the wall.
All the idolaters in the world proceed in this manner.
Now I must go to another city which lies to the south,
near the extremity of this desert.

XXXVI.—Of the City of Kamul.
Kamult is a province, formerly a kingdom, containing
cities and castles, with a capital of the same name. It
stands between two deserts, the great one already described, and a smaller one, extending three days’ journey. |
The people are all idolaters, and have a peculiar language ; they live by the fruits of the earth, having
enough to eat, and also to sell to the passenger. They
are men of great gaiety, thinking of nothing but to
sound musical instruments, to sing, dance, and delight
their hearts, When a stranger comes to lodge in a
house, the master is highly pleased, and leaves him with
his wife, desiring her to treat him in every respect as a
husband, while he himself goes and spends two or three
days elsewhere. All the men of the province proceed
in this manner, and do not account it any disgrace. The
women are handsome, gay, and fond of diversion. Now,
when Mangou Khan reigned as sire of the Tartars,
it was reported to him how the people of Kamul
gave over their wives to strangers, when he sent orders
that, under a severe penalty, travellers should not be
henceforth entertained in this manner. When they received this injunction, they were greatly grieved, held
a council, and did what I will now tell you. They
made up a large present, and sent it to Mangou,
praying that he would allow them to treat their
wives according to the custom handed down to them
by their ancestors, who, for this kindness to strangers,
had gained the favour of their idols, and their corn
and other crops had greatly multiplied. When he
heard this message, he said, “Since you are so bent on
your own shame, let it be so.” He allowed them, therefore, to do as they pleased, and hence they have always
maintained this custom.

XXXVII.—Of the Province of Ginghintalas.

Ginghintalas is a province which is near the desert,
between north and south, sixteen days’ journey in extent, and subject to the great khan. It contains cities,
castles, and three descriptions of men, idolaters, adorers .
of Mohammed, and Nestorian Christians. On the borders
of it, towards the north, is a mountain containing a
very abundant vein of copper and antimony. There is
also one from which is made the salamander; but do
not suppose this is the animal so called, for no creature can live in fire, because it is compounded of the four
elements. It is only through ignorance that the salamander is called an animal ; and a Turk, named Zurficar, who was very learned, and governor of this province for three years under the great khan, being much
employed in working the mines, gave me an account of it.
When this ore is taken from the mountain, and is broken,
it strings together, and forms a thread like wool. Being
then dried, pounded in a large mortar, and washed, there
remains that thread of which I have spoken. Being then
woven like wool, it forms cloth, which is dingy in
colour at first, but when placed and left some time in
the fire, it becomes white as snow, without dirt or stain.
This is the truth of the salamander, and every thing else
said about itis mere fable.I can tell you, too, that at
Rome there is a cloth which the great khan sent to the
pope as a costly present, and the sudarium of our Lord
was placed within it. Now let us tell you of other provinces to the south-east and east.

XXXVIII.—Of the Province of Succiur.

When you have departed from the province now described, you go ten days in the same direction. In all
that way there are few habitations, nor does any thing
occur worth mentioning. You then finda district called
Succiur,with a capital of the same name. The people
are Christians, and idolaters, and under the great khan.
All the three provinces last described belong to the general one named Tangut. Through all its mountains,
rhubarb is found in great abundance, and the merchants
purchase and carry it over the whole world.t They
cannot, however, take this road through the mountains
with any animals but those accustomed to the country,
because a poisonous plant grows there, which, when
eaten, causes the hoofs to drop off ; but the native cattle,
having learned its dangerous quality, carefully avoid it.t
They live by the fruits of the earth, but attend little to
merchandise. Now I must tell you of another city.

XXXIX.—Of the Province of Canpicion.

Canpicion is a great and noble town, chief and capital
of the whole province of Tangut. The people are idolaters, and there are some who adore Mohammed, and also
Christians who have three large and beautiful churches.
The first have monasteries and abbeys according to
their custom, with a very great number of idols, some of
which, I assure you, are ten paces high, severally formed
of wood, of earth, and of stone, all beautifully covered
with gold and ivory. Their priests live more respectably than others, and guard themselves against luxury,
though they do not hold it for a very great sin. They
observe the lunar months like ours, and in one of
them do not kill any beast or bird. For five days they
eat no food that has had life, and live more strictly
than usual. They take sometimes thirty wives, or
as many as they have wealth to maintain, and give
them a dowry in beasts, slaves, and money ; but the
first wife ranks always as the principal.If any of
them do not please him, she may be divorced. They
marry their cousins and even the wives of their father,
and do not regard as sins many things which we account great ones ; for they live like beasts : therefore let
us leave them and go to the north. But I must tell you
that Messeri Nicolo, Maffio, and Marco, remained in that
city a year, on particular business which I need not
enter into. We shall now go sixty days northwards.*

XL.—Of the Province of Ezina.

After riding twelve days, you come to a city named
Ezina,which is at the northern extremity of the desert
of sand, and still in Tangut. The people, who are idolaters, breed camels and other beasts, and have falcons
of different species and of good quality. They live by
the fruits of the earth and cattle, and are also employed in
merchandise. In this city, a man lays in provisions for
forty days, during which time, travelling from Ezina
northwards, there is neither habitation nor inns. But the
people, except during summer, remain in the valleys; and
in the mountains they find a number of wild beasts,
especially asses: there are also pine-forests. At the end
of these forty days they reach a northern province, and
you shall hear what it is.

XLI.—Of the City of Karakorum.
Karakorum isa city three miles in circuit,which was
the first that the Tartars took when they issued from
their country, and I am to tell you of their actions and
manners, how they gained command, and spread themselves over the world. You must know that they dwelt
in the north, about Ciorcia, in which region are great
plains, and no abode in cities or castles, but good pasturage, large rivers, and abundance of water. They had
no lords, yet paid tribute to the great sire, named in
their language Unchan, whom we call Prester John, and
who is spoken of over all the world. They paid to him
one beast out of every ten; but they multiplied so
greatly, that he became afraid of them, and resolved to
separate them into different countries; for which purpose he sent his barons among them. The Tartars
on hearing this were much grieved, and, holding a
council, determined to flee through desert countries to
the north, where he could not reach nor injure them.
They then ceased to obey or pay tribute to him,and
remained thus for a long time.

XLII.—On Gengis, the first Khan of the Tartare.

Now it happened that, about 1187, the Tartars appointedaking, who was named in their language Gengis Khan.
He was a man of great worth, sense, and prowess; and
let me tell you, when he was elected, all the Tartars in
the world that were scattered through those strange
countries came and owned him as their lord. He maintained his power with great vigour, and the multitudes
who ranged under his standard were almost innumerable.
When he saw so numerous an army, he went conquering
other countries, and made himself master of eight provinces ; yet he neither injured nor robbed the people of
any thing, but placing them under leaders in whom he
could confide, led them on to other triumphs. Thus
he overthrew, as you have. heard, a multitude of nations ; and seeing his good command and mildness, they
cheerfully followed him, upon which he formed the design of subduing a great part of the world. In the
year 1200, he sent a message to Prester John, asking his
daughter to wife. Hereupon that monarch was very indignant, and said,—"What impudence is this in Gengis
Khan! Knows he not that he is my man and my vassal? Return, and tell him that I would burn my daughter sooner than give her to him, and that he deserves to
be put to death as a traitor and disloyal to hislord.” He
then desired the messengers to depart forthwith, and
never return. They presently went away, and coming
to their master, told him in order all that the other
had said.

XLIII.—His Battle with Prester John, and Victory over him.

When Gengis Khan heard this boastful speech,
his heart swelled, so that it almost burst within him ;
for you must know he was a man of very great pride.
He then said to his minister, and to all about him, that
he would not continue to hold the sovereignty, unless
Prester John were made to pay more dearly for this
villany than ever man did, and he must soon be made to
see whether he was his vassal. Then he summoned
round him the greatest army that ever was seen or heard
of, and sent notice to Unchan that he must defend
himself, as he was coming against him. When that
prince knew certainly the approach of Gengis with
so great a force, he made light of it, saying, they
were not men-at-arms ; yet. resolved that should he
approach, he would do all in his power to take and
put him todeath. He then ordered all his people to be
prepared and summoned from many and strange parts,and
a greater host and of more formidable aspect was never
seen. And why make a long story! The khan, with all
his people, came to a great and beautiful plain, named
Tenduc, in Prester John’s country, where he pitched his camp, and rejoiced greatly to hear that his enemy was
coming, because it was an excellent situation for giving
battle. He sent for his astrologers, who were Christian
and Saracen, and required to know which would conquer in that battle, he or his antagonist. The latter
could tell nothing of the truth ; but the former showed
it openly; for they brought before him a cane, cut
in the middle, and placed the two parts on different
sides, and wrote the name of Gengis on one, and of
Unchan on the other, telling him, that when they had
made their enchantment, he whose cane should come
above that of the other would conquer in battle. He
desired that this should be shown to him as soon as possible. Then they took up the Psaltery, read certain portions, and performed their enchantment, when presently
the cane on which was the name of Gengis, without any
one touching it, joined the other, and mounted above it,
and this was witnessed by all present. When he saw
this, he was greatly rejoiced, and seeing that the Christians were men of truth, held them always in great
honour. Two days after, the armies engaged, and it was
the greatest battle that ever was fought. The slaughter
was terrible on both sides; but at length Gengis conquered, his enemy was slain in the engagement, and he
himself became master of all his land. From that day
he went on conquering many castles and provinces, and
reigned six years ; but, at the end of that time, he besieged a fort, named Cangui, where he was wounded in
the knee by an arrow, and died. This was a great misfortune, for he was a brave and wise man.

XLIV.—On the Khans who reigned after the Death of Gengis.

After the death of Gengis, the next khan was Cui,
the third Bacui, the fourth Alton, the fifth Mangou, the
sixth Kublai,who is greater and more powerful than
all the rest; for the other five together had not so
much power as this Kublai ; nay, let me tell you, that
all the emperors in the world, and all the Christian
and Saracen kings, do not equal him, as is shown
fully in our book. Now you must know that the
great lords of the lineage of Gengis Khan are buried
in a lofty mountain called Altai, and whenever the
chief lords of the Tartars die, if it should be a hundred
days’ journey distant, they must be conveyed thither
to be interred. I will tell you another striking wonder ;
that when the bodies of the khans are carried to
these mountains, the conductors put to the sword all
the men whom they meet on the road, saying, “ Go and
serve the great lord in the other world ;” and they do
the same to the horses, killing also for that purpose
the best he has, You must know that when Mangou
died, more than 20,000 men were slain, who had been met
on the road when his body was removed to be buried.

XLV.—On the Religion, Customs, and Manners of the Tartars.

Now since I have begun speaking of the Tartars, I
will tell you many thingsabout them. They abide during winter in plains and warm situations, where there
is abundant herbage for their cattle; and in summer
they retire to cool places on mountains and high valleys, where water abounds. They have wooden houses
covered with felt, of a round shape, which they convey
with them wherever they go; for they have them so
well bound with twigs as to be easily carried. Whenever they take down and set up a house, the gate is
always placed to the south. They have waggons so
well covered with black felt, that if it should rain the
whole day, no water would reach any thing within ;
and they are drawn by oxen and camels. On the top
they place their wives and children ; and I must tell you
that the ladies buy, sell, and perform all the work necessary for their husbands, who do nothing but hunt,
hawk, and go to war. They live on flesh, milk, and
the produce of hunting, and likewise on rats of Pharaoh,
which are found here in great numbers.They eat also
the flesh of camels, dogs, and indeed of every kind of
animal, and drink mare’s milk. They shun the seduction of married females, as a most vile and shameful
thing; and the wives are very faithful, performing
extremely well the business of the household. Every
man may take as many as he pleases, even to a hundred, if he can maintain them ; yet they hold the first
as the principal and most respectable. They scruple
not to marry their cousins, and if the father dies, the
eldest son may take all his wives, except his own
mother ; he marries also the widow of his deceased brother. They celebrate their marriages by great festivals.
The Tartars, who believe in a deity of a sublime and
heavenly nature, burn incense in censers to him, and
pray that he may preserve them in health of mind and
body. They have also one called Nacygai, whom they
call their earthly god, who guards their children, cattle,
and corn, They fashion him of felt and cloth, keep him
in their house, and pay him great honour and reverence.
They make for him also a wife and children of cloth,
placing the first on his left hand, and the latter in front.
Before eating, they take the fat meat and anoint his
mouth with it; then lay bread before the door of his
chamber. Having done this, they say that their god
and his family have had their share, and sit down to
their own meals, I told you that they drink mare’s
milk, but it is in such a manner that it seems white
wine, being of an agreeable taste, and called chemius.
The wealthy wear rich robes of gold and silk, with
varied furs of the ermine, sable, and fox. Their harness is beautiful and of great value; their arms are
bows, swords, and clubs ; but the first is more used than
the others, because they are excellent archers. On
their back they wear armour of buffalo and other very
strong hides.

I will tell you the manner in which they maintain
justice. If a man has stolen an article of little value,
they give him seven lashes, or seventeen, or twentyseven, going on thus always to three hundred and seven,
and many die under them. If he steals a horse or
any thing else for which he deserves to die, he is cut
through the middle with a sword; yet if he can pay
nine times the value of what he has stolen, he is allowed
to live. Every lord or other man, who owns oxen
or any cattle, makes them be marked with his seal,
and then allows them to feed on the plains or among
the mountains ; and whoever finds one straying brings
it to him whose mark is upon it. The sheep and lambs,
however, are guarded by ashepherd. Their cattle are
all remarkably large, fat, and beautiful. They have
another wonderful custom which I had forgot; for
when two men have one a son, the other a daughter,
dead at the age of four, they marry them together, and
represent the union by cards, which they set on fire, and
when they see the flame and smoke ascending, they
make great shouts and run backward and forward, saying that the dead are going to their children in the
other world, and are to be husband and wife there.
They do more, for they paint on cards the similitudes of men, horses, cloths, bezants, and harness, then
burn them, and say that all these things will be possessed by their children in the other world.

XLVI.—On their Wars, and the Order of their Armies.

The Tartars are good men-at-arms in battle, capable
of much endurance; and they can go through more
warlike toil than other men. Often, when necessary,
one of them will remain a month without any food,
except the milk of a mare and the flesh of animals killed
by him in hunting, his horse feeding on the grass,
without his needing to bring barley or straw. He is
very obedient to his master, and when necessary will
remain the whole night armed on horseback. They are
the men in the world most capable of enduring fatigue
and trouble, subsisting at the least expense, and best
fitted for conquering lands and kingdoms. They arrange their armies in the following manner. When
a Tartar lord goes to war, he has with him 100,000
men. He places a chief over every ten, every hundred,
every thousand, every ten thousand, so that each officer,
even the commander of the hundred thousand, has to deal
only with ten persons; for he gives his orders to the
chiefs of ten thousand, they to those of one thousand,
they to those of a hundred ; and thus every man answers
to his captain. The hundred thousand is called a tut,
and ten thousand a toman.When the armies are
marching through plains and mountains, they send
200 men two days in advance, also behind and on each
side, so that they cannot he attacked by surprise. And
when they are marching a long way they carry no
baggage, but merely two large leathern bags, in which
they put their milk, and a little earthen pot for cooking their victuals. They take a small tent, under which
they remain during rain. And I tell you also, that
when necessary they ride full ten days without food, and
without lighting a fire; but piercing a vein of their
horse, they drink his blood. They have likewise their
milk dried into a species of paste, which, when about
to use, they stir till it becomes liquid and can be drunk.
When they go to battle with their enemies, they conquer
in this manner: they apparently betake themselves to
a shameful flight, for they have so trained their horses
that they turn round and round like dogs. And when
they are fleeing and hotly pursued, they fight as well
as when they face the enemy ; for in their swiftest
flight they wheel about and discharge their arrows,
which kill both men and horses of the opposite army,
who, when they think their adversaries discomfited
and vanquished, fall themselves one after the other.
When the Tartars have thus made a great slaughter,
they turn and rush on so violently, that they soon
gain a complete triumph. All that I have told you
here applies to the genuine Tartars ; but they are now
much altered ; those who live in Cathay have adopted
the manners and customs of the idolaters ; those in the
Levant imitate the Saracens.I have said nothing here
of the mighty acts of the great khan, the sire of all the
Tartars, nor of his splendid imperial court ; for these
wonderful things are described elsewhere in this book.
But let us now return to our route on the great plain
where we were when we began to speak of their actions.

XLVII.—On the Plains rf Bengu and the extreme Parts of the North.

When you depart from Karakorum, and from Altai,
where the khans are interred, as I have related above, you
go northwards through a country which is called the
plain of Bangnu, and continues during a journey of forty
days. The inhabitants, who are called Mecri, and are
very savage, live on the flesh of animals, chiefly deer, nay
I assure you that they ride upon these animals. Their
customs resemble those of the Tartars, and they are
subject to the great khan. They have neither corn
nor wine, but in summer abundance of beasts and birds
for hunting and hawking ; though in winter none remain in the country on account of the intense cold. After
travelling these forty days you come to the ocean ; and
there is found a mountain, where the peregrine falcons
build their nests. You must know this place contains
neither men nor women, nor beasts, nor any birds, except one species, which is called barghenlac, on which .
the hawks feed. They are of the size of partridges,
have feet like parrots, and tails like swallows, and
they fly very swiftly. When the great khan wishes
peregrine falcons, he sends thither for them, In an
island of that sea, too, are bred the gerfalcons; and I
assure you the place is so far north, that the polestar
remains behind, and is seen to the south. Those birds are
bred on that isle in such abundance, that the great khan
obtains as many as he pleases; while others are conveyed to Argon and other lords of the East.Now that I have told you of these northern provinces as far asthe
ocean, let us return to Canpicion.

XLVIII.—On the great City of Erginul.

‘When a man departs from that city, he goes five days
eastward through a country where there are many spirits,
who are often heard speaking during the night. You
then find a kingdom called Erginul,* belonging to the
great khan, and included in the large province of Tangut. There are a good many towns, the chief one bearing the same name ; and the people are a mixture of
Nestorian Christians, idolaters, and Mohammedans.
Proceeding thence south-east, you come into the country
of Cathay, when you will find in the way a city named
Singuy.There are a good many other towns, still in
Tangut, and subject to the great khan; and the inhabitants are as above described. There are a vast number
of wild oxen, as large as elephants, and very beautiful,
—their back being entirely covered with white and
black hair, three palms long. These animals are
also caught and tamed, when they do twice as much
work as the common ox.This country, too, produces
the best musk in the world, and I will describe the animal
by which it is supplied. It is small, about the size of an
antelope, which it resembles in the feet and tail, but has
a soft thick hair like the stag, no horns, only four teeth,
two above and two below, three inches long and very
sharp. It is a beautiful creature; and, on its being
taken, there is found a bag between the skin and the
flesh, containing a bloody imposthume, which, when the
skin is cut through, is drawn out, and forms the musk
whence issues so strong an odour.In this country it
is very abundant, and of good quality. The people also
raise plenty of corn,and engage in merchandise and manufactures. The region extends to a journey of full twentyfive days. There are pheasants twice as large as ours,
with tails from seven to ten palms long.Others resemble ours; and there are various birds, with finely
coloured wings. The people, who are idolaters, are
fat, with small noses, black hair, and no beard unless
on the chin. The ladies have no hair except on the
head, and are every way very handsome. The men
are voluptuous, and are authorized by their law and
usage to take as many wives as they can maintain. If
a woman is beautiful, though of humble birth, a great
baron readily espouses her, giving to her mother such
a sum of money as may be agreed on.

XLIX.—On the Province of Egrigaia.

When a man departs from Erginul, and goes eight
days castward, he finds a province of Tangut called
Egrigaia, where there are cities and castles, and the
chief one is named Calacian.The people are idolaters ;
yet there are three towns held by Nestorian Christians.
They are subject to the great Tartar; and in this city is
made cloth of camels’ hair, the most beautiful and valuable in the world. There is akind of wool whence they
manufacture very fine white camlets in great quantities.
These the merchants convey by many routes to Cathay
and other parts throughout the world. Now let us go
to Tenduc, in the territory of Prester John.

L.—On the Province of Tenduc, and of Gog and Magog.

Tenduc is a province towards the east,where there
are cities and castles, and the chief one bears the same
name. The people belong to the great khan, like all
those formerly subject to Prester John. In this province there is a king named George, descended from that
prince, and who indeed enjoys his power. He holds
the land under the khan, but only a part of that which
was possessed by his ancestor. I assure you, however,
that the khans have often given their daughters and
female relations to the reigning kings of this line. In
this province are found the stones whence azure is made ;
they are plentiful and good. Camlets, too, are woven
of camels’ hair. The natives live on cattle and the fruits
of the earth, and have likewise some merchandise and
manufactures, The Christians, as already mentioned,
are masters of the land ;but there are also idolaters and
worshippers of Mohammed. There is likewise a people
called Argon, meaning in French Guasmul, that is, mixed
of two different races. They are handsomer than the
others, more prudent and commercial. Know that in
this province was the chief. seat of Prester John, when
he ruled over the Tartars and all the surrounding
countries ; and this George is the sixth in succession
from him. This, too, is the place which we in our
country call Gog and Magog, but they call it Ung and
Mungul ;and in each province was a different race of
people,—in Ung were the Gog, and in Mungul dwelt the
Tartars.

When a man rides through that province seven days
eastward towards Cathay, he finds many cities and castles,
The inhabitants are Mohammedans, idolaters, and Christians ; they carry on trade, and manufacture fine gilded
cloths, called nascisi, with various kinds of silk cloth,
and are subject to the great khan. There is a city named
Sindacui, with many manufactures of harness and trappings necessary for an army. In the mountains of that
country is a place named Idifu, where there is a very
productive silver mine. They have no want éf beasts
and birds for hunting. Now let us depart from this
province and its cities, and travel three days, when we
shall find a town named Cianganor, in which is a fine
palace of the great khan [already described, p. 136].

LI.—On the City of Chandu.
Departing from this city, and travelling three days
between north and north-east, you come to another
named Chandu,t built by Kublai, the great khan now
reigning. Here he has built a most magnificent palace.