Badascian is a large province, whose people adore Mohammed, and have a language of their own. It is governed by kings descended from Alexander and the daughter of Darius lord of Persia, and all these kings are called in Saracen Zulcarnem, which means in their language Alexander.In this country occur the precious stones called balasiu, which are very beautiful and valuable. They are found in the rocks of a mountain called Lighinan, and are cut out of very deep caverns, as is done by those who work silver mines, Know, too, that the king makes them be worked out for himself, and no other man may cut out balasiu on that mountain, on pain of death. His majesty sends them as presents to other princes and great lords, either as homage, or in token of friendship, and he likewise sells them for gold and silver. The prohibition is enforced that they may continue valuable ; for if all persons were allowed to dig for them, they would be quite depreciated.You must likewise know, that in other mountains of the same country are found the stones of which ultramarine is made, and it is the finest and best in the world.There are also lofty hills containing veins yielding silver in abundance. The country is extremely cold, but it breeds very good horses, which run with great speed over these wild tracts without being shod with iron.t There are found also the falcons called sacri, which fly well and swiftly ; also those called /anier ; and there is abundant hunting of beasts and birds. Wheat and good barley are plentiful ; they have no oil of olives, but make it from sesamum and nuts. This kingdom has many a narrow pass and strong post to secure it against the entrance of enemies, and the cities and castles are strongly built on high mountains.The people are good archers and hunters, and mostly clad in the skins of beasts, on account of the scarcity of cloth. The great ladies, however, wear from sixty toa hundred yards of bombasine wrapped round their body, in order that they may appear very fat, because the men delight in such a shape.  On the summits of the mountains the air is so pure and salubrious that the inhabitants of the towns and lower valleys, when attacked by fever or other inflammatory complaints, immediately remove thither, and in three or four days recover their health. Marco Polo affirms, that he himself experienced its excellent effects ; for after being confined nearly a year by sickness, he was advised to try change of air by ascending the hills, and he then immediately regained his strength.