Samarcan is a very great and noble city, lying to the south, inhabited by Christians and Saracens. The people are governed by a nephew of the great khan, who, however, is not his friend, but is in open hostility against him. I have to tell you a great wonder which happened in this city. You must know that not very long since, Ciagatai, brother to the great khan, became a Christian, and was lord of that and of many other countries. The believers of Samarcan rejoiced greatly at his conversion, and erected a large church in honour of it, bearing the name of St John the Baptist. They took a large and fine stone belonging to the Saracens, and made it the base of a column, which rose in the middle of the edifice, and supported the whole roof. Now it came to pass that Ciagatai died, whereupon the Mohammedans, having been much enraged at this stone being taken for the use of the church, consulted with each other how to recover it by force. This they could now easily do, being ten to one of their adversaries, Several of their elders went and told the Christians that they wished to receive back the slab, which had been formerly theirs. The latter answered, that they would willingly restore it, but for the injury it would do to their building, and offered to pay a fair price for it. The others replied, that they wished neither gold nor treasure, but must have their stone. The government now belonged to the nephew of the great khan, who commanded that within two days it should be restored. When the Christians received that order, they were much grieved, and knew not what to do. They went, however, and with many tears implored John the Baptist to relieve them in this tribulation. On the morning of the day when the stone was to be returned, the pillar, by the power of our Lord, rose up at least three palms, and supported itself as well as when the stone was beneath it, and has continued to do so till this day. This was and still is accounted one of the greatest miracles that ever happened in the world.Now let me tell you of a province which is called Yarcan.