In Georgia§ is a king always called David Melik, which means David the King ; he is subject to the Tartars ; and anciently all the monarchs of this province were born with the mark of an eagle on their left shoulder. They are a handsome people, good archers, and valiant in battle. They are Christians of the Greek church, and wear their hair close shaven in the manner of clergy. This is the province which Alexander could not pass through on account of the narrowness of the path ; because on one side is the sea, and on the other very high mountains, over which it is impossible to ride ; and, as this strait continues above four leagues, a few men might hold out against the whole world. This was the reason why he could not pass; but he built a very strong tower, that no one might come upon him from the other side, and it is called the Iron Gate.This is the place mentioned in the book of Alexander, where he enclosed the Tartars within their mountains ; though the Tartars did not exist at that time, but a certain people called Comani, and other races besides.. There are many cities and castles, with silk in abundance, with which, added to gold, they make cloths the most beautiful that ever man saw. Here are the finest cagles in the world ; also victuals of every kind in abundance. The province is full of great mountains, and of narrow passes, so that I can tell you the Tartars could never obtain the entire sovereignty of it. There isa monastery called St Leonard, containing a great wonder, which I will now relate. A large lake of water issues from a neighbouring mountain, in which, during the whole year, there is not found a fish great or small, except from the day before Lent down to the evening of Easter Sunday ; and during the whole of that time fishes are taken in great abundance, but none at any other. And know that this sea of which I have spoken is seven hundred miles in circuit, and receives the Euphrates, one of the delights of paradise, and many other great rivers. It is all surrounded by mountain and land; and lately the merchants of Genoa, who have built shipa, navigate it, bringing silk, which is called gelle.* Into this sea the great rivers Herdil,t Geihon, Kur, and Aras enter. In that province there is a grand city named Teflis, with suburbs and fortified posts around it. The inhabitants are Armenian and Georgian Christians, with some few Mohammedans and Jews. There are manufactures of silk and other articles. Now, having told you of the boundaries of Armenia to the north, I will describe those to the south and east.